"Be happy for no reason, like a child. If you are happy for a reason, you’re in trouble, because that reason can be taken from you." ~ Deepak Chopra
"You are not creating a new you; you are releasing a hidden you. The process is one of self discovery. The hidden you that wants to emerge is in perfect balance." ~ Deepak Chopra
"Feel the world, instead of trying to understand the world." ~ Deepak Chopra

"Every thought, feeling, and emotion creates a molecule known as a neuropeptide. Neuropeptides travel throughout your body and hook onto receptor sites of cells and neurons. Your brain takes in the information, converts it into chemicals, and lets your whole body know if there's trouble in the world or cause for celebration. Your body is directly influenced as these molecules course through the bloodstream, delivering the energetic effect of whatever your brain is thinking and feeling." ~ Deepak Chopra
"If you have your full attention in the moment, you will see only love." ~ Deepak Chopra
"Daydream, imagine, and reflect. It’s the source of infinite creativity." ~ Deepak Chopra
"The world "out there" won't change until the world "in here" does." ~ Deepak Chopra
"The three things you can offer your children to change them: attention, appreciation and affection." ~ Deepak Chopra
"To define yourself is to limit yourself. Without labels you remain the infinite being." ~ Deepak Chopra
"The past is gone, the future is not here, now I am free of both. Right now, I choose joy." ~ Deepak Chopra

"To make the right choices in life, you have to get in touch with your soul. To do this, you need to experience solitude, which most people are afraid of, because in the silence you hear the truth and know the solutions." ~ Deepak Chopra
"If you are having the experience of anxiety, your body is making adrenaline and cortisone, if you are having the experience of tranquility, your body starts making valium, if you are having the experience of exhilaration and joy, your body makes interleukins and interferons which are powerful anti-cancer drugs. So, your body is constantly converting your experiences into molecules." ~ Deepak Chopra
"If you had all the money and all the time in the world, what would you do?!" ~ Deepak Chopra





