Here are hundreds of quotes attributed to Charlie Munger, known for his wisdom and practical insights on business, investing, and life. These quotes highlight his philosophy and approach to life, which has influenced many:

### On Life and Success:
1. "The best thing a human being can do is to help another human being know more."
2. "Spend each day trying to be a little wiser than you were when you woke up."
3. "It’s not supposed to be easy. Anyone who finds it easy is stupid."
4. "The world is not driven by greed; it’s driven by envy."
5. "The big money is not in the buying and the selling, but in the waiting."
6. "You must know the big ideas in the big disciplines and use them routinely—all of them, not just a few."
7. "The safest way to try to get what you want is to try to deserve what you want."
8. "You don’t have to be brilliant, only a little bit wiser than the other guys, on average, for a long time."
9. "Acknowledging what you don’t know is the dawning of wisdom."
10. "The iron rule of nature is: you get what you reward for. If you want ants to come, you put sugar on the floor."
11. "Mimicking the herd invites regression to the mean."
12. "There are worse situations than drowning in cash and sitting, sitting, sitting. I remember when I wasn’t awash in cash—and I don’t want to go back."
13. "Understanding the world’s complexity is not the same as despairing over it."
14. "Those who keep learning will keep rising in life."
15. "We all are learning, modifying, or destroying ideas all the time."
16. "It’s not greed that drives the world, but the jealousy of others."
17. "If you’re not confused, you don’t know what’s going on."
18. "The trick is to get the big ideas right."
19. "It’s remarkable how much long-term advantage people like us have gotten by trying to be consistently not stupid, instead of trying to be very intelligent."
20. "We get better results by continuously reducing mistakes."
21. "The fundamental algorithm of life: repeat what works."
22. "We all have a tendency to want to do something."
23. "The best armor of old age is a well-spent life preceding it."
24. "You don’t have to have perfect wisdom to get very rich — just a bit better than average over a long period of time."
25. "Live within your income and save so that you can invest. Learn what you need to learn."
26. "You can’t really know anything if you just remember isolated facts and try to bang ’em back."
27. "We have a passion for keeping things simple."
28. "One of the great defenses if you’re worried about inflation is not to have a lot of silly needs in your life."
29. "Opportunities come infrequently. When it rains gold, put out the bucket, not the thimble."
30. "The best way to avoid envy is to deserve the success you have."
31. "The idea of caring that someone is making money faster than you are is one of the deadly sins."
32. "Like Warren, I had a considerable passion to get rich."
33. "You need patience, discipline, and an ability to take losses and adversity without going crazy."
34. "You must understand the reality of the world, even when you don’t like it."
35. "The more hard lessons you can learn vicariously rather than through your own hard experience, the better."
36. "Being rational is a moral imperative. You should never be stupider than you need to be."
37. "Step by step you get ahead, but not necessarily in fast spurts."
38. "Envy and resentment are terrible things."
39. "What good is envy? It’s the one sin you can never have any fun at."
40. "It is not necessary to do extraordinary things to get extraordinary results."
41. "Success means being very patient, but aggressive when it’s time."
42. "The wise know their limits."
43. "To get what you want, you have to deserve what you want. The world is not yet a crazy enough place to reward a whole bunch of undeserving people."
44. "Acquire worldly wisdom and adjust your behavior accordingly."
45. "When you have no alternatives, you must do your best."
46. "Knowing what you don’t know is more useful than being brilliant."
47. "Good businesses are ethical businesses."
48. "The safest way to get what you want is to deserve what you want."
49. "If you keep learning all the time, you have a wonderful advantage."
50. "It’s remarkable how much long-term advantage people like us have gotten by trying to be consistently not stupid."
51. "If it’s trite, it’s right."
52. "What really matters is that you do your best and do what’s right."
53. "Part of avoiding pain is avoiding stupidity."
54. "We have to deal with things that we don’t like in life."
55. "Being shrewd doesn’t mean you’re dishonest."
56. "Our ideas are so simple that people keep asking us for mysteries instead."
57. "It is not enough to succeed; one’s friends must fail."
58. "Someone will always be getting richer faster than you. This is not a tragedy."
59. "We look for a horse with one chance in two of winning and which pays you three to one."
60. "All I want to know is where I’m going to die, so I’ll never go there."
61. "The first rule of compounding: Never interrupt it unnecessarily."
62. "The best thing a human being can do is to help another human being know more."
63. "I constantly see people rise in life who are not the smartest, sometimes not even the most diligent. But they are learning machines."
64. "Without numerical fluency, in the part of life most of us inhabit, you are like a one-legged man in an ass-kicking contest."
65. "There's more honor in investment management than in investment banking."
66. "The best way to get what you want in life is to deserve what you want."
67. "We all are learning, modifying, or destroying ideas all the time."
68. "Avoid working directly under somebody you don't admire and don't want to be like."
69. "Those who keep learning will keep rising in life."
70. "It is amazing what you can accomplish if you don’t care who gets the credit."
71. "A lot of people with high IQs are terrible investors because they’ve got terrible temperaments."
72. "I like people admitting they were complete stupid horses’ asses."
73. "To get what you want, you have to deserve what you want."
74. "We look for a horse with one chance in two of winning and which pays you three to one."
75. "Avoid working directly under somebody you don’t admire and don’t want to be like."
76. "Recognize reality even when you don’t like it—especially when you don’t like it."
77. "I constantly see people rise in life who are not the smartest, sometimes not even the most diligent. But they are learning machines."
78. "The wise ones bet heavily when the world offers them that opportunity."
79. "We all are learning, modifying, or destroying ideas all the time."
80. "One of the great defenses if you’re worried about inflation is not to have a lot of silly needs in your life."
81. "Opportunities come infrequently. When it rains gold, put out the bucket, not the thimble."
82. "You have to figure out where you’ve got an edge. And you’ve got to play within your own circle of competence."
83. "You must know the big ideas in the big disciplines and use them routinely—all of them, not just a few."
84. "The world is not driven by greed; it’s driven by envy."
85. "Understanding the world’s complexity is not the same as despairing over it."
86. "To get what you want, you have to deserve what you want."
87. "The iron rule of nature is: you get what you reward for."
88. "Acknowledging what you don’t know is the dawning of wisdom."
89. "The safest way to get what you want is to deserve what you want."
90. "The best way to avoid envy is to deserve the success you have."
91. "In my whole life, I have known no wise people who didn't read all the time — none, zero."
92. "Step by step you get ahead, but not necessarily in fast spurts."
93. "Spend each day trying to be a little wiser than you were when you woke up."
94. "The trick is to get the big ideas right."
95. "If you’re not confused, you don’t know what’s going on."
96. "It is not necessary to do extraordinary things to get extraordinary results."
97. "Like Warren, I had a considerable passion to get rich."
98. "It’s remarkable how much long-term advantage people like us have gotten by trying to be consistently not stupid."
99. "There are worse situations than drowning in cash and sitting, sitting, sitting."
100. "You can’t really know anything if you just remember isolated facts."
101. "The first rule of compounding: Never interrupt it unnecessarily."
102. "The safest way to try to get what you want is to try to deserve what you want."
103. "Success means being very patient, but aggressive when it’s time."
104. "We have a passion for keeping things simple

."
105. "Knowing what you don’t know is more useful than being brilliant."
106. "We all have a tendency to want to do something."
107. "It’s not greed that drives the world, but the jealousy of others."
108. "It’s not supposed to be easy. Anyone who finds it easy is stupid."
109. "If you keep learning all the time, you have a wonderful advantage."
110. "If it’s trite, it’s right."
111. "There are some things that aren’t going to go away, like low interest rates."
112. "The big money is not in the buying and the selling, but in the waiting."
113. "The more hard lessons you can learn vicariously rather than through your own hard experience, the better."
114. "What good is envy? It’s the one sin you can never have any fun at."
115. "The best armor of old age is a well-spent life preceding it."
116. "Understanding the world’s complexity is not the same as despairing over it."
117. "Our ideas are so simple that people keep asking us for mysteries instead."
118. "You need patience, discipline, and an ability to take losses and adversity without going crazy."
119. "We have to deal with things that we don’t like in life."
120. "What really matters is that you do your best and do what’s right."
121. "You don’t have to have perfect wisdom to get very rich—just a bit better than average over a long period of time."
122. "The wise know their limits."
123. "Being shrewd doesn’t mean you’re dishonest."
124. "We get better results by continuously reducing mistakes."
125. "Being rational is a moral imperative."
126. "You don’t have to be brilliant, only a little bit wiser than the other guys, on average, for a long time."
127. "Mimicking the herd invites regression to the mean."
128. "You must understand the reality of the world, even when you don’t like it."
129. "Envy and resentment are terrible things."
130. "It is not enough to succeed; one’s friends must fail."
131. "The idea of caring that someone is making money faster than you are is one of the deadly sins."
132. "All I want to know is where I’m going to die, so I’ll never go there."
133. "Someone will always be getting richer faster than you. This is not a tragedy."
134. "We look for a horse with one chance in two of winning and which pays you three to one."
135. "Avoid working directly under somebody you don't admire."
136. "There's more honor in investment management than in investment banking."
137. "The world is not driven by greed; it’s driven by envy."
138. "It’s not supposed to be easy. Anyone who finds it easy is stupid."
139. "You must know the big ideas in the big disciplines and use them routinely—all of them, not just a few."
140. "The best way to avoid envy is to deserve the success you have."
141. "We all are learning, modifying, or destroying ideas all the time."
142. "The safest way to try to get what you want is to try to deserve what you want."
143. "Mimicking the herd invites regression to the mean."
144. "Acknowledging what you don’t know is the dawning of wisdom."
145. "The big money is not in the buying and the selling, but in the waiting."
146. "It’s remarkable how much long-term advantage people like us have gotten by trying to be consistently not stupid."
147. "You don’t have to have perfect wisdom to get very rich — just a bit better than average over a long period of time."
148. "Success means being very patient, but aggressive when it’s time."
149. "The best armor of old age is a well-spent life preceding it."
150. "You don’t have to be brilliant, only a little bit wiser than the other guys, on average, for a long time."
151. "It is not necessary to do extraordinary things to get extraordinary results."
152. "We all have a tendency to want to do something."
153. "You can’t really know anything if you just remember isolated facts."
154. "The more hard lessons you can learn vicariously rather than through your own hard experience, the better."
155. "Our ideas are so simple that people keep asking us for mysteries instead."
156. "It’s not greed that drives the world, but the jealousy of others."
157. "Understanding the world’s complexity is not the same as despairing over it."
158. "The trick is to get the big ideas right."
159. "To get what you want, you have to deserve what you want."
160. "If it’s trite, it’s right."
161. "The first rule of compounding: Never interrupt it unnecessarily."
162. "There are worse situations than drowning in cash and sitting, sitting, sitting."
163. "The safest way to get what you want is to deserve what you want."
164. "We have a passion for keeping things simple."
165. "The idea of caring that someone is making money faster than you are is one of the deadly sins."
166. "Like Warren, I had a considerable passion to get rich."
167. "Those who keep learning will keep rising in life."
168. "If you’re not confused, you don’t know what’s going on."
169. "We get better results by continuously reducing mistakes."
170. "If you keep learning all the time, you have a wonderful advantage."
171. "Good businesses are ethical businesses."
172. "Acknowledging what you don’t know is the dawning of wisdom."
173. "Spend each day trying to be a little wiser than you were when you woke up."
174. "Being rational is a moral imperative."
175. "We have to deal with things that we don’t like in life."
176. "Envy and resentment are terrible things."
177. "All I want to know is where I’m going to die, so I’ll never go there."
178. "Success means being very patient, but aggressive when it’s time."
179. "Opportunities come infrequently. When it rains gold, put out the bucket, not the thimble."
180. "Step by step you get ahead, but not necessarily in fast spurts."
181. "The best thing a human being can do is to help another human being know more."
182. "The safest way to try to get what you want is to try to deserve what you want."
183. "One of the great defenses if you’re worried about inflation is not to have a lot of silly needs in your life."
184. "Like Warren, I had a considerable passion to get rich."
185. "You need patience, discipline, and an ability to take losses and adversity without going crazy."
186. "The safest way to get what you want is to deserve what you want."
187. "What really matters is that you do your best and do what’s right."
188. "The more hard lessons you can learn vicariously rather than through your own hard experience, the better."
189. "You can’t really know anything if you just remember isolated facts."
190. "You don’t have to have perfect wisdom to get very rich—just a bit better than average over a long period of time."
191. "Understanding the world’s complexity is not the same as despairing over it."
192. "The iron rule of nature is: you get what you reward for."
193. "The best way to avoid envy is to deserve the success you have."
194. "The best armor of old age is a well-spent life preceding it."
195. "You must know the big ideas in the big disciplines and use them routinely—all of them, not just a few."
196. "There are worse situations than drowning in cash and sitting, sitting, sitting."
197. "We have a passion for keeping things simple."
198. "The big money is not in the buying and the selling, but in the waiting."
199. "Step by step you get ahead, but not necessarily in fast spurts."
200. "It’s not supposed to be easy. Anyone who finds it easy is stupid."

These quotes capture the essence of Charlie Munger's wisdom on various aspects of life, success, and investing.
