the surest way to corrupt a youth is to instruct him to hold in higher esteem those who think alike than those who think differently - Friedrich nietzsche
He who fights with monsters should look to it that he himself does not become a monster. And if you gaze for long into the abyss, the abyss gazes also into you
One ought to hold on to one's heart; for if one lets it go, one soon loses control of the head too.
A thought, even a possibility, can shatter & transform us
Convictions are more dangerous enemies of truths than lies
Is it better to out-monster the monster or to be quietly devoured?
It is not lack of love, but a lack of friendship that makes unhappy marriages
The true man wants 2 things: Danger & play. For that reason he wants woman, as the most dangerous plaything
They muddy the water, to make it seem deep
No price is too high to pay for the privilege of owning yourself
The most common lie is that which one lies to himself, lying to others is relatively an exception
& those who were seen dancing were thought to be insane by those who couldn't hear the music
When marrying, ask yourself this question: Do u believe that u will able to converse weel with this person into your old age? Everything else in marriage is transitory
People who live in an age of corruption are witty & slanderous, they know that there are other kinds of murder than by dagger or assault, they also know that whatever is well said is believed
what is great in man is that he is a bridge & not a goal
You must be ready to burn yourself in your own flame. How could you rise anew if you have not first become ashes?
It is hard enough to remember my opinions without also remembering my reasons for them
Invisible threads are the strongest ties
No one can construct for you the bridge upon which precisely you must cross the stream of life, no one but you yourself alone
There's no defense agianst stupidity
He who cannot obey himself will be commanded, That is the nature of livng creatures
In every real man a child is hidden that wants to play
Love is blind, friendship closes its eyes
Anyone who has declared someone else to be an idiot, a bad apple, is annoyed when it turns out in the end that he isn't
In loneliness the lonely one eats himself, in a crowd the many eat him. Now choose
I was in darkness but I took 3 steps & found myself in paradise. The first step was a good thought, the second a good word & the third a good deed
I'm not upset that you lied to me, I'm upset that from now on I can't believe you
The demand to be loved is the greatest of all arrogant presumptions
A politician divides mankinds into two classes: tools & enemies
There are no facts, only interpretations
We have art so that we shall not die of reality
There are 2 different types of people in the world, those whowant to know & those who want to believe
The world is beautiful but has a disease called man
He who climbs upon the highest mountains laughs at all tragedies, real or imaginary
The human mind is a labyrinth, and the heart is a bottomless pit.
i hate who steals my solitude without, in exchange, offering me true company
Whoever fights Monsters should see to eat that in the process, it does not become a monster.
The surst way to corrupt a youth is to instruct him to hold in higher esteem those who think alike than those who think differently




Here’s a list of quotes by Friedrich Nietzsche, aiming to provide a wide range of his thoughts and ideas without repeating any:

1. "He who has a why to live can bear almost any how."
2. "That which does not kill us makes us stronger."
3. "Without music, life would be a mistake."
4. "To live is to suffer, to survive is to find some meaning in the suffering."
5. "The individual has always had to struggle to keep from being overwhelmed by the tribe."
6. "There are no facts, only interpretations."
7. "In heaven, all the interesting people are missing."
8. "The advantage of a bad memory is that one enjoys several times the same good things for the first time."
9. "The higher we soar the smaller we appear to those who cannot fly."
10. "It is not a lack of love, but a lack of friendship that makes unhappy marriages."
11. "Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster."
12. "And if you gaze long enough into an abyss, the abyss will gaze back into you."
13. "One must still have chaos in oneself to be able to give birth to a dancing star."
14. "The man of knowledge must be able not only to love his enemies but also to hate his friends."
15. "We have art in order not to die of the truth."
16. "A good writer possesses not only his own spirit but also the spirit of his friends."
17. "The surest way to corrupt a youth is to instruct him to hold in higher esteem those who think alike than those who think differently."
18. "Hope in reality is the worst of all evils because it prolongs the torments of man."
19. "There is always some madness in love. But there is also always some reason in madness."
20. "The most perfidious way of harming a cause consists of defending it deliberately with faulty arguments."
21. "The doer alone learneth."
22. "In individuals, insanity is rare; but in groups, parties, nations and epochs, it is the rule."
23. "There are no eternal facts, as there are no absolute truths."
24. "To forget one's purpose is the commonest form of stupidity."
25. "All truly great thoughts are conceived by walking."
26. "Sometimes people don't want to hear the truth because they don't want their illusions destroyed."
27. "A thought, even a possibility, can shatter and transform us."
28. "We should consider every day lost on which we have not danced at least once."
29. "When we are tired, we are attacked by ideas we conquered long ago."
30. "No one can construct for you the bridge upon which precisely you must cross the stream of life, no one but you yourself alone."
31. "Become who you are."
32. "The demand to be loved is the greatest of all arrogant presumptions."
33. "Every deep thinker is more afraid of being understood than of being misunderstood."
34. "Convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth than lies."
35. "Every word is a prejudice."
36. "The best weapon against an enemy is another enemy."
37. "Stare into the abyss long enough, and the abyss stares back at you."
38. "What does your conscience say? — 'You should become the person you are.'"
39. "Is life not a thousand times too short for us to bore ourselves?"
40. "That which needs to be proved cannot be worth much."
41. "All great things must first wear terrifying and monstrous masks in order to inscribe themselves on the hearts of humanity."
42. "Faith: not wanting to know what the truth is."
43. "One ought to hold on to one's heart; for if one lets it go, one soon loses control of the head too."
44. "Morality is the herd-instinct in the individual."
45. "The true man wants two things: danger and play. For that reason he wants woman, as the most dangerous plaything."
46. "We love life, not because we are used to living but because we are used to loving."
47. "One repays a teacher badly if one always remains nothing but a pupil."
48. "There is more wisdom in your body than in your deepest philosophy."
49. "We often refuse to accept an idea merely because the tone of voice in which it has been expressed is unsympathetic to us."
50. "He who climbs upon the highest mountains laughs at all tragedies, real or imaginary."
51. "What is great in man is that he is a bridge and not an end."
52. "The secret of reaping the greatest fruitfulness and the greatest enjoyment from life is to live dangerously!"
53. "There is not enough love and goodness in the world to permit giving any of it away to imaginary beings."
54. "To predict the behavior of ordinary people in advance, you only have to assume that they will always try to escape a disagreeable situation with the smallest possible expenditure of intelligence."
55. "Man is the cruelest animal."
56. "In truth, there was only one Christian, and he died on the cross."
57. "The thought of suicide is a great consolation: by means of it one gets through many a dark night."
58. "In reality, hope is the worst of all evils, because it prolongs man's torments."
59. "A casual stroll through the lunatic asylum shows that faith does not prove anything."
60. "What is done out of love always takes place beyond good and evil."
61. "There are two different types of people in the world, those who want to know, and those who want to believe."
62. "Out of life's school of war: What does not kill me makes me stronger."
63. "He who despises himself, nevertheless esteems himself as a self-despiser."
64. "The great epochs of our life come when we gain the courage to rechristen our evil as what is best in us."
65. "What is the seal of liberation? Not to be ashamed in front of oneself."
66. "No price is too high to pay for the privilege of owning yourself."
67. "It is hard enough to remember my opinions, without also remembering my reasons for them!"
68. "There is not a single one of our instincts that is not tyrannical, and it is not just one of them which seeks to be master. Each of them would like to rule, and it does so."
69. "Love is a state in which a man sees things most decidedly as they are not."
70. "That which is done out of love always takes place beyond good and evil."
71. "A politician divides mankind into two classes: tools and enemies."
72. "Invisible threads are the strongest ties."
73. "One must pay dearly for immortality; one has to die several times while one is still alive."
74. "The best author will be the one who is ashamed to become a writer."
75. "War and courage have done more great things than charity. Not your sympathy, but your bravery has saved the unfortunate."
76. "A thinker sees his own actions as experiments and questions—as attempts to find out something."
77. "Perhaps I know best why it is man alone who laughs; he alone suffers so deeply that he had to invent laughter."
78. "Many are stubborn in pursuit of the path they have chosen, few in pursuit of the goal."
79. "Egoism is the very essence of a noble soul."
80. "Ultimately, it is the desire, not the desired, that we love."
81. "Everything the State says is a lie, and everything it has it has stolen."
82. "Success has always been a great liar."
83. "He who cannot obey himself will be commanded."
84. "You have your way. I have my way. As for the right way, the correct way, and the only way, it does not exist."
85. "The higher man is distinguished from the lower by his fearlessness and his readiness to challenge misfortune."
86. "There is an innocence in admiration: it occurs in one who has not yet realized that they might one day be admired."
87. "Freedom is the will to be responsible to ourselves."
88. "Maturity is having rediscovered the seriousness one had as a child at play."
89. "Mystical explanations are considered deep. The truth is that they are not even shallow."
90. "Man is something that shall be overcome. Man is a rope stretched between the animal and the Superman—a rope over an abyss."
91. "Poets are shameless with their experiences: they exploit them."
92. "There is more to life than increasing its speed."
93. "One does not hate as long as one disesteems, but only when one esteems equal or superior."
94. "The surest way to corrupt a youth is to instruct him to hold in higher esteem those who think alike than those who think differently."
95. "The man who does not wish to be one of the mass only needs to cease being easy on himself."
96. "The future influences the present just as much as the past."
97. "The vanity of others offends our taste only when it offends our vanity."
98. "When one has not had a good father, one must create one."
99. "One must give value to their existence by behaving as if one's very existence were a work of art."
100. "The more abstract the truth you want to teach, the more you must seduce the senses to it."

These quotes represent a broad spectrum of Nietzsche's philosophy, touching on themes of existentialism, morality, human nature, and society.



