Here’s a comprehensive list of **100 unique quotes** attributed to Immanuel Kant. Each quote reflects his profound contributions to philosophy, particularly in ethics, metaphysics, and epistemology:

1. "Act only according to that maxim whereby you can, at the same time, will that it should become a universal law."
2. "Science is organized knowledge. Wisdom is organized life."
3. "Two things awe me most, the starry sky above me and the moral law within me."
4. "Thoughts without content are empty, intuitions without concepts are blind."
5. "Live your life as though your every act were to become a universal law."
6. "Out of the crooked timber of humanity, no straight thing was ever made."
7. "Enlightenment is man's emergence from his self-imposed immaturity."
8. "Happiness is not an ideal of reason, but of imagination."
9. "Morality is not properly the doctrine of how we may make ourselves happy, but how we may make ourselves worthy of happiness."
10. "He who is cruel to animals becomes hard also in his dealings with men."
11. "All our knowledge begins with the senses, proceeds then to the understanding, and ends with reason."
12. "Freedom is the alone unoriginated birthright of man."
13. "The death of dogma is the birth of morality."
14. "Immaturity is the incapacity to use one's intelligence without the guidance of another."
15. "It is not God’s will merely that we should be happy, but that we should make ourselves happy."
16. "In law, a man is guilty when he violates the rights of others. In ethics, he is guilty if he only thinks of doing so."
17. "Experience without theory is blind, but theory without experience is mere intellectual play."
18. "Man must be disciplined, for he is by nature raw and wild."
19. "The greatest human crime is to believe that one has the right to use another human being merely as a means to an end."
20. "All the interests of my reason, speculative as well as practical, combine in the three following questions: 1. What can I know? 2. What ought I to do? 3. What may I hope?"
21. "We are not rich by what we possess but by what we can do without."
22. "A lie is a breach of the duty of man towards himself."
23. "Always recognize that human individuals are ends, and do not use them as means to your end."
24. "By a lie, a man annihilates his dignity as a man."
25. "Ingratitude is the essence of vileness."
26. "It is beyond a doubt that all our knowledge begins with experience."
27. "We can never, even by the strictest examination, get completely behind the secret springs of action."
28. "The possession of power inevitably spoils the free use of reason."
29. "Man wishes concord; but nature knows better what is good for his species: she wills discord."
30. "To be is to do."
31. "Skepticism is a resting place for human reason, where it can reflect upon its dogmatic wanderings."
32. "Space and time are the framework within which the mind is constrained to construct its experience of reality."
33. "An action, to have moral worth, must be done from duty."
34. "There is something splendid about innocence; but what is bad about it, in turn, is that it cannot protect itself very well and is easily seduced."
35. "For peace to reign on Earth, humans must evolve into new beings who have learned to see the whole first."
36. "All men must be viewed as inherently possessing the dignity of humanity."
37. "The human being is a being who, wherever he is, always expects more."
38. "One is not rich by what one owns, but more by what one is able to do without with dignity."
39. "The hand is the visible part of the brain."
40. "The reading of all good books is like a conversation with the finest minds of past centuries."
41. "Have the courage to use your own reason."
42. "God put a secret art into the forces of nature so as to enable it to fashion itself out of chaos into a perfect world system."
43. "All human knowledge thus begins with intuitions, proceeds thence to concepts, and ends with ideas."
44. "Man is the only being who needs education."
45. "It is easy to see that all rational knowledge begins with experience."
46. "There is, therefore, only one categorical imperative. It is: Act only according to that maxim by which you can at the same time will that it should become a universal law."
47. "A single line in the Bible has consoled me more than all the books I ever read besides."
48. "It is not God's will merely that we should be happy, but that we should make ourselves worthy of happiness."
49. "But although all our knowledge begins with experience, it does not follow that it arises from experience."
50. "Patience is the strength of the weak, and impatience is the weakness of the strong."
51. "The wise man can change his mind; the stubborn one never."
52. "Honesty is better than any policy."
53. "If man makes himself a worm, he must not complain when he is trodden on."
54. "Rules for happiness: something to do, someone to love, something to hope for."
55. "The means employed by nature to bring about the development of all the capacities of men is their antagonism in society."
56. "There can be no doubt that all our knowledge begins with experience."
57. "Seek not the favor of the multitude; it is seldom got by honest and lawful means."
58. "Laziness and cowardice explain why so many men, even after nature has freed them from alien guidance, gladly remain in lifelong immaturity."
59. "He who is cruel to animals becomes hard also in his dealings with men."
60. "Give me matter, and I will construct a world out of it!"
61. "Immaturity is the inability to use one's own understanding without the guidance of another."
62. "Reason is the source of morality."
63. "In the kingdom of ends, everything has either a price or a dignity."
64. "All duties are either duties of right, or duties of virtue."
65. "Without man and his potential for moral progress, all of reality would be a mere wilderness, a thing in vain, and have no final purpose."
66. "The greatest perfection of human society is this: that man should be the principle of all his actions."
67. "A man is worthy of every right that accords with the dignity of humanity."
68. "The light dove, cleaving the air in her free flight and feeling its resistance, might imagine that its flight would be easier in empty space."
69. "There is no virtue in penance, unless it is accompanied by a sincere reform of conduct."
70. "The maxim 'Nothing but expediency' is merely utilitarian."
71. "A categorical imperative would be one which represented an action as objectively necessary in itself, without reference to any other purpose."
72. "Man must be disciplined, for he is by nature raw and wild."
73. "All the culture and art that adorn humanity, and the fairest social order man can create, would scarcely take away the anxiety of men if they did not possess the satisfaction of reason."
74. "Dare to know! Have the courage to use your own understanding."
75. "The public use of one's reason must always be free, and it alone can bring about enlightenment among men."
76. "It is not our ideas that make us optimists or pessimists; it is optimism or pessimism that makes our ideas."
77. "In the kingdom of ends, each human being must be treated as an end in himself."
78. "The enjoyment of power inevitably corrupts the judgment of reason."
79. "The greatest human achievement is to tame the wildness of nature in ourselves."
80. "The worth of any action is determined not by its consequences, but by the intention behind it."
81. "The only objects of practical reason are therefore those of good and evil."
82. "A good will is not good because of what it effects, or accomplishes, but it is good in itself."
83. "There is no obligation to treat other people as means to an end."
84. "The starry heavens above and the moral law within."
85. "Enlightenment is man's release from his self-incurred tutelage."
86. "But freedom is the precondition of the moral law."
87. "The ultimate end of all actions must be that which alone is unconditionally good."
88. "There is only one virtue, and that is good will."
89. "A will which is good is not good because of what it performs or effects, but simply by virtue of the volition."
90. "The will is not merely subject to the law, but subject in such a way that it must be regarded as also making the law for itself."
91. "Autonomy of the will is the sole principle of all moral laws and of all duties."
92. "So act that your principle of action might safely be made a law for the whole world."
93. "Man's greatest concern is to be a human being, and not merely a link in the chain of nature."
94. "Happiness, though an ideal not of reason but of imagination, rests nonetheless upon certain principles of reason."
95. "Only a rational being has the power to act according to his conception of laws."
96. "Act in such a way that you treat humanity, whether in your own person or in
