Leonardo da vinci
1. The noblest pleasure is the joy of understanding
2. A painter should begin every canvas with a wash of black because all things in nature are dark except where exposed by the light
3. "average human “looks without seeing, listens without hearing, touches without feeling, eats without tasting, moves without physical awareness, inhales without awareness of odour or fragrance, and talks without thinking." ~ Leonardo da Vinci
"To be a winner you must want to win but must know of the chance of losing and must not fear of it." ~ Leonardo da Vinci
"The lover is moved by the beloved object as the senses are by sensual objects; and they unite and become one and the same thing. The work is the first thing born of this union; if the thing loved is base the lover becomes base." ~ Leonardo da Vinci
"Study me, reader, if you delight in me, because on very few occasions shall I return to the world, and because the patience for this profession is found in very few, and only in those who wish to compose things anew. Come, oh men, to see the miracles that such studies will disclose to nature." ~ Leonardo da Vinci
"Movement will fail sooner than usefulness." ~ Leonardo da Vinci
"Even the richest soil, if left uncultivated will produce the rankest weeds." ~ Leonardo da Vinci
"Drawing is based upon perspective, which is nothing else than a thorough knowledge of the function of the eye." ~ Leonardo da Vinci
"Medicine is the restoration of discordant elements; sickness is the discord of the elements infused into the living body." ~ Leonardo da Vinci
"Savage is he who saves himself." ~ Leonardo da Vinci

All our knowledge has its origin in our preceptions." ~ Leonardo da Vinci
"If you put on more clothes as the cold increases, it will have no power to hurt you. Let us hope that." ~ Leonardo da Vinci
"Those who fall in love with practice without science are like a sailor who enters a ship without a helm or a compass, and who never can be certain whither he is going." ~ Leonardo da Vinci















