Here are 100 unique quotes from Mark Twain:

1. "The secret of getting ahead is getting started."
2. "If you tell the truth, you don't have to remember anything."
3. "Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear, not absence of fear."
4. "Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect."
5. "Kindness is the language which the deaf can hear and the blind can see."
6. "The man who does not read has no advantage over the man who cannot read."
7. "The two most important days in your life are the day you are born and the day you find out why."
8. "Good friends, good books, and a sleepy conscience: this is the ideal life."
9. "The lack of money is the root of all evil."
10. "Truth is stranger than fiction, but it is because Fiction is obliged to stick to possibilities; Truth isn't."
11. "Age is an issue of mind over matter. If you don't mind, it doesn't matter."
12. "Wrinkles should merely indicate where the smiles have been."
13. "All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence, and then success is sure."
14. "The best way to cheer yourself up is to try to cheer somebody else up."
15. "It is better to keep your mouth closed and let people think you are a fool than to open it and remove all doubt."
16. "A lie can travel halfway around the world while the truth is putting on its shoes."
17. "Patriotism is supporting your country all the time, and your government when it deserves it."
18. "Don't go around saying the world owes you a living. The world owes you nothing. It was here first."
19. "I have never let my schooling interfere with my education."
20. "The human race has one really effective weapon, and that is laughter."
21. "Get your facts first, then you can distort them as you please."
22. "Suppose you were an idiot, and suppose you were a member of Congress; but I repeat myself."
23. "Clothes make the man. Naked people have little or no influence in society."
24. "Never put off till tomorrow what you can do the day after tomorrow."
25. "Do the right thing. It will gratify some people and astonish the rest."
26. "Forgiveness is the fragrance that the violet sheds on the heel that has crushed it."
27. "In the first place, God made idiots. That was for practice. Then he made school boards."
28. "Be careful about reading health books. You may die of a misprint."
29. "When we remember we are all mad, the mysteries disappear and life stands explained."
30. "The reports of my death have been greatly exaggerated."
31. "I can live for two months on a good compliment."
32. "The most interesting information comes from children, for they tell all they know and then stop."
33. "Let us live so that when we come to die even the undertaker will be sorry."
34. "To succeed in life, you need two things: ignorance and confidence."
35. "The more I learn about people, the more I like my dog."
36. "Name the greatest of all inventors. Accident."
37. "When you fish for love, bait with your heart, not your brain."
38. "A person who won't read has no advantage over one who can't read."
39. "Thunder is good, thunder is impressive; but it is lightning that does the work."
40. "A man is never more truthful than when he acknowledges himself a liar."
41. "You can't depend on your eyes when your imagination is out of focus."
42. "A clear conscience is the sure sign of a bad memory."
43. "The trouble is not in dying for a friend, but in finding a friend worth dying for."
44. "Let us endeavor so to live that when we come to die, even the undertaker will be sorry."
45. "Few things are harder to put up with than the annoyance of a good example."
46. "It is curious that physical courage should be so common in the world and moral courage so rare."
47. "Truth is the most valuable thing we have. Let us economize it."
48. "A man who carries a cat by the tail learns something he can learn in no other way."
49. "Education consists mainly in what we have unlearned."
50. "Life would be infinitely happier if we could only be born at the age of eighty and gradually approach eighteen."
51. "Loyalty to petrified opinion never yet broke a chain or freed a human soul."
52. "When angry, count four. When very angry, swear."
53. "The man with a new idea is a crank until the idea succeeds."
54. "All generalizations are false, including this one."
55. "He who asks is a fool for five minutes, but he who does not ask remains a fool forever."
56. "The secret source of humor is not joy but sorrow; there is no humor in Heaven."
57. "Never tell the truth to people who are not worthy of it."
58. "Action speaks louder than words but not nearly as often."
59. "The most permanent lessons in morals are those which come, not of book teaching, but of experience."
60. "There is a charm about the forbidden that makes it unspeakably desirable."
61. "Prosperity is the best protector of principle."
62. "The worst loneliness is to not be comfortable with yourself."
63. "A full belly is little worth where the mind is starved."
64. "You can’t reason with your heart; it has its own laws, and thumps about things which the intellect scorns."
65. "It's not the size of the dog in the fight, it's the size of the fight in the dog."
66. "Good breeding consists in concealing how much we think of ourselves and how little we think of the other person."
67. "A man cannot be comfortable without his own approval."
68. "Grief can take care of itself, but to get the full value of a joy you must have somebody to divide it with."
69. "Great people are those who make others feel that they, too, can become great."
70. "The best way to keep your word is not to give it."
71. "To get the full value of joy you must have someone to divide it with."
72. "A man’s character may be learned from the adjectives which he habitually uses in conversation."
73. "We have the best government that money can buy."
74. "There are lies, damned lies, and statistics."
75. "To be great, truly great, you have to be the kind of person who makes the others around you great."
76. "When you cannot get a compliment any other way, pay yourself one."
77. "There is no sadder sight than a young pessimist, except an old optimist."
78. "There is nothing in the world like persuasive speech to fuddle the mental apparatus."
79. "I have never taken any exercise except sleeping and resting."
80. "A banker is a fellow who lends you his umbrella when the sun is shining, but wants it back the minute it begins to rain."
81. "Man is the only animal that blushes. Or needs to."
82. "To eat is human; to digest, divine."
83. "There are no people who are quite so vulgar as the over-refined."
84. "There is no distinctly American criminal class—except Congress."
85. "Laughter without a tinge of philosophy is but a sneeze of humor. Genuine humor is replete with wisdom."
86. "It is easier to stay out than get out."
87. "We can secure other people’s approval if we do right and try hard; but our own is worth a hundred of it."
88. "Do something every day that you don't want to do; this is the golden rule for acquiring the habit of doing your duty without pain."
89. "Few sinners are saved after the first twenty minutes of a sermon."
90. "Worrying is like paying a debt you don't owe."
91. "Familiarity breeds contempt—and children."
92. "Don't part with your illusions. When they are gone, you may still exist, but you have ceased to live."
93. "Man was made at the end of the week's work, when God was tired."
94. "To promise not to do a thing is the surest way in the world to make a body want to go and do that very thing."
95. "Never argue with a fool; onlookers may not be able to tell the difference."
96. "It usually takes me more than three weeks to prepare a good impromptu speech."
97. "Do not put off till tomorrow what can be put off till day-after-tomorrow just as well."
98. "It is easier to fool people than to convince them that they have been fooled."
99. "A round man cannot be expected to fit in a square hole right away. He must have time to modify his shape."
100. "Work and play are words used to describe the same thing under differing conditions."

This list includes a wide range of quotes that showcase Twain's humor, wisdom, and wit. Would you like more quotes?
