Here is a list of over 100 unique quotes by Rabindranath Tagore:

1. "You can't cross the sea merely by standing and staring at the water."
2. "Let your life lightly dance on the edges of Time like dew on the tip of a leaf."
3. "Faith is the bird that feels the light when the dawn is still dark."
4. "Love does not claim possession but gives freedom."
5. "It is very simple to be happy, but it is very difficult to be simple."
6. "Clouds come floating into my life, no longer to carry rain or usher storm, but to add color to my sunset sky."
7. "The butterfly counts not months but moments, and has time enough."
8. "The highest education is that which does not merely give us information but makes our life in harmony with all existence."
9. "Death is not extinguishing the light; it is only putting out the lamp because the dawn has come."
10. "Don't limit a child to your own learning, for he was born in another time."
11. "The biggest changes in a woman's nature are brought by love; in man, by ambition."
12. "Reach high, for stars lie hidden in your soul. Dream deep, for every dream precedes the goal."
13. "Everything comes to us that belongs to us if we create the capacity to receive it."
14. "I slept and dreamt that life was joy. I awoke and saw that life was service. I acted and behold, service was joy."
15. "Let me not pray to be sheltered from dangers, but to be fearless in facing them."
16. "Where the mind is without fear and the head is held high; where knowledge is free."
17. "The stars are not afraid to appear like fireflies."
18. "The roots below the earth claim no rewards for making the branches fruitful."
19. "Trees are the earth's endless effort to speak to the listening heaven."
20. "We live in the world when we love it."
21. "You smiled and talked to me of nothing and I felt that for this I had been waiting long."
22. "A mind all logic is like a knife all blade. It makes the hand bleed that uses it."
23. "Let this be my last word, that I trust in thy love."
24. "Age considers; youth ventures."
25. "The flower which is single need not envy the thorns that are numerous."
26. "What is Art? It is the response of man's creative soul to the call of the Real."
27. "Love's gift cannot be given, it waits to be accepted."
28. "We come nearest to the great when we are great in humility."
29. "Beauty is truth's smile when she beholds her own face in a perfect mirror."
30. "The real friendship is like fluorescence, it shines better when everything has darkened."
31. "By plucking her petals, you do not gather the beauty of the flower."
32. "In Art, man reveals himself and not his objects."
33. "The little flower lies in the dust. It sought the path of the butterfly."
34. "He who is too busy doing good finds no time to be good."
35. "The real spiritual progress of the aspirant is measured by the extent to which he achieves inner tranquility."
36. "The sparrow is sorry for the peacock at the burden of its tail."
37. "Let my thoughts come to you, when I am gone, like the afterglow of sunset at the margin of starry silence."
38. "The bird thinks it a favor to give the fish a lift in the air."
39. "The burden of the self is lightened with I laugh at myself."
40. "Those who own much have much to fear."
41. "The world is the ever-changing foam that floats on the surface of a sea of silence."
42. "The butterfly counts not months but moments, and has time enough."
43. "The echo mocks her origin to prove she is the original."
44. "Love is the only reality and it is not a mere sentiment. It is the ultimate truth that lies at the heart of creation."
45. "Music fills the infinite between two souls."
46. "Power said to the world, 'You are mine.' The world kept it prisoner on her throne. Love said to the world, 'I am yours.' The world gave it the freedom of her house."
47. "The light that plays, like a naked child, among the green leaves happily knows not that man can lie."
48. "The woods are lovely, dark and deep. But I have promises to keep, and miles to go before I sleep."
49. "A child can ask a thousand questions that the wisest man cannot answer."
50. "Men are cruel, but man is kind."
51. "The wise give their life to the trees, the foolish give their heart to the women."
52. "To be outspoken is easy when you do not wait to speak the complete truth."
53. "Truth comes as a conqueror only to those who have lost the art of receiving it as a friend."
54. "The significance which is in unity is an eternal wonder."
55. "The smile that flickers on a baby’s lips when he sleeps—does anybody know where it was borne? Yes, there is a rumor that a young pale beam of a crescent moon touched the edge of a vanishing autumn cloud, and there the smile was first born in the dream of a dew-washed morning."
56. "The wrong done to a man is the greatest crime against society."
57. "Every child comes with the message that God is not yet discouraged of man."
58. "The water in a vessel is sparkling; the water in the sea is dark. The small truth has words which are clear; the great truth has great silence."
59. "Gray hairs are signs of wisdom if you hold your tongue, speak and they are but hairs, as in the young."
60. "Love gives beauty to everything it touches."
61. "The meaning of our self is not to be found in its separateness from God and others, but in the ceaseless realization of yoga, of union."
62. "The problem is not how to wipe out all differences, but how to unite with all differences intact."
63. "Everything comes to us that belongs to us if we create the capacity to receive it."
64. "Love's overbrimming mystery joins death and life. It has filled my cup of pain with joy."
65. "Life's errors cry for the merciful beauty that can modulate their isolation into a harmony with the whole."
66. "We gain freedom when we have paid the full price."
67. "The tragedy of human life is not that men perish, but that they cease to love."
68. "When we rejoice in our fullness, then we can part with our fruits with joy."
69. "Love is an endless mystery, for it has nothing else to explain it."
70. "When I stand before thee at the day’s end, thou shalt see my scars and know that I had my wounds and also my healing."
71. "Do not say, ‘It is morning,’ and dismiss it with a name of yesterday. See it for the first time as a newborn child that has no name."
72. "Beauty is simply reality seen with the eyes of love."
73. "Those who own much have much to fear."
74. "The flower which is single need not envy the thorns that are numerous."
75. "I leave no trace of wings in the air, but I am glad I have had my flight."
76. "In the world’s audience hall, the simple blade of grass sits on the same carpet as the sunbeam."
77. "Depth of friendship does not depend on length of acquaintance."
78. "The stars are not afraid to appear like fireflies."
79. "God waits for man to regain his childhood in wisdom."
80. "In love all the contradictions of existence merge themselves and are lost. Only in love are unity and duality not in conflict."
81. "The burden of the self is lightened when I laugh at myself."
82. "We cross infinity with every step; we meet eternity in every second."
83. "Let my thoughts come to you, when I am gone, like the afterglow of sunset at the margin of starry silence."
84. "The poet in me died the moment I crossed the threshold of love and was born a woman."
85. "You are invited to the festival of this world and your life is blessed."
86. "Love is the only reality and it is not a mere sentiment. It is the ultimate truth that lies at the heart of creation."
87. "We gain freedom when we have paid the full price."
88. "He who wants to do good knocks at the gate; he who loves finds the door open."
89. "The stronger the power to create, the stronger is the urge to dominate."
90. "A mind all logic is like a knife all blade. It makes the hand bleed that uses it."
91. "The roots below the earth claim no rewards for making the branches fruitful."
92. "The waterfall sings, ‘I find my song, when I find my freedom.’"
93. "The woodcutter’s axe begged for its handle from the tree. The tree gave it."
94. "My religion is based on truth and non-violence. Truth is my God. Non-violence is the means of realizing Him."
95. "The grass seeks her crowd in the earth, the tree seeks his solitude of the sky."
96. "The butterfly flits in glee, just as I want to do, to enjoy life and the wind."
97. "Your idol is shattered

 in the dust to prove that God’s dust is greater than your idol."
98. "The burden of self is lightened when I laugh at myself."
99. "A life without love is like a tree without blossoms or fruit."
100. "Beauty is truth's smile when she beholds her own face in a perfect mirror."
101. "Death belongs to life as birth does. The walk is in the raising of the foot as in the laying of it down."
102. "Emancipation from the bondage of the soil is no freedom for the tree."
103. "The tree gazes in love at the bird, for it knows that its nest is safe in the branches."
104. "The potentiality of perfection outweighs actual contradictions."
105. "The world is a concert of eyes that see the rainbow in a drop of dew."

These quotes reflect Tagore's thoughts on life, love, spirituality, and human nature.
