Always stick to what makes you weird, odd, strange, different. That's your source of power
All masters want to appear more brilliant than other people
Envy creates silent enemies. It is smart to occasionally display defects & admit to harmless vices, in order to deflect envy & appear more human & approachable.
Many a serious thinker has been produced in prisions, where we have nothing to do but think
Lord, protect me from my friends, I can take care of my enemies
There is nothing more intoxicating than victory, & nothing more dangerous
Be wary of friends - they will betray you more quickly, for they are easily aroused toenvy. they also become spoiled & tyrannical. But hire a former enemy & he will be more loyal than a friend, because he has more to prove. In fact, you have more to fear from friends than from enemies. If you have no enemies find a way to make them
Despise the free lunch
When you show yourself to the world & display your talents, you naturally stir all kinds of resentment =, envy & other manifestations of insecurity
You cannot spend your life worrying about the petty feelings of others
The more you say, the more likely you are to say something foolish
Some people are slow to take offense, which may make you misjudge the thickness of their skin, & fail to worry about insulting them. But should you offend their honor & their pride =, they will overwhelm you with a voilence that seems sudden & extreme given their slowness to anger
Keep your friends for friendship but work with the skilled & competent
If you wnat to turn people down, it is best todo so politely & respectfully, even if you feel their request is impudent or their offer ridiculous
People who have experienced a certain kind of pleasure in the past will try to repeat or relive it. the deepest-rooted & most pleasurable memories are usually those from earliest childhood & are often unconciously associated with a parental figure
People People are more complicated than the masks they wear in society
You may grow frustrated and depressed never realizing that the source of it is your alienation from your own creative potential
we are entering a world in which we can rely less and less upon the state, the corporation, or familu or friends to help and protect us. It is a globalized, harshly competitive environment, we must learnt o develop ourselves
In order to master a field, you must love the subject and feel a profound connection to it. Your intrest must transcend the field itself & border on the religious
You possess a kind of innter force that seeks to guide you toward your life's task - what you are meant to accomplish in the time that you havetolive
too many people believe that everything must be pleasurable in lifem which makes them constantly search for distractions and short-circuits the learning process
What is impertant when you are young, is to train yourself to get by with little money and make the most of your youthful energy
Your thoughtswill tend to revolve around what you value most
You must value learning above everything else
No one is reallly going to help you or give you direction. IN fact, the odds are against you. If you desire an apprenticeship, if you want to learn and set yourself up for mastery, you have todo it yourself and with great energy
The very desire to find shortcuts makes you eminently unsuited forany kind of mastery
Being attacked is a sign that you are important enough to be a target. You should relish the attention and the chance yo prove yourself
Do not wait for a coronation, the greatest emperors crown themselves
