No man is more unhappy than he who never faces adversity for he is not permitted to prove himself
Life without the courage for death is slavery
You act like mortals in all of your fears, and immortal in all of your desires
The whole future lies in uncertanity
The day a man becomes superior to pleasure, he will also be superior to pain
The important thing about a problem is not its solution, but the strength we gain in finding the solution




Here’s a list of more than 300 of the best quotes by Seneca, a Stoic philosopher who profoundly influenced Western thought. These quotes are categorized by themes like wisdom, virtue, time, death, and self-control, drawing from his works such as Letters from a Stoic, On the Shortness of Life, and On Anger.

On Time and Life:
"It is not that we have a short time to live, but that we waste a lot of it."
"Life, if well lived, is long enough."
"While we wait for life, life passes."
"Life is long if you know how to use it."
"No man is free who is a slave to his body."
"Begin at once to live, and count each separate day as a separate life."
"Sometimes even to live is an act of courage."
"Life is divided into three periods: that which has been, that which is, and that which will be."
"You act like mortals in all that you fear, and like immortals in all that you desire."
"We suffer more in imagination than in reality."
"It is not the man who has too little, but the man who craves more, that is poor."
"As long as you live, keep learning how to live."
"We are always complaining that our days are few, and acting as though there would be no end of them."
"Expecting is the greatest impediment to living. In anticipation of tomorrow, it loses today."
"It is not that we have a short time to live, but that we waste a lot of it."
"It is the power of the mind to be unconquerable."
"Let us prepare our minds as if we’d come to the very end of life."
"Every new beginning comes from some other beginning's end."
"Life is long if you know how to use it."
"We are more often frightened than hurt; and we suffer more from imagination than from reality."
"He who is brave is free."
"It is of course better to know useless things than to know nothing."
"You must live for another if you wish to live for yourself."
"Associate with people who are likely to improve you."
"It is not the man who has too little, but the man who craves more, that is poor."
On Wisdom and Knowledge:
"There is no easy way from the earth to the stars."
"Difficulties strengthen the mind, as labor does the body."
"It is a rough road that leads to the heights of greatness."
"True happiness is… to enjoy the present, without anxious dependence upon the future."
"The greatest obstacle to living is expectancy, which hangs upon tomorrow and loses today."
"Leisure without books is death, and burial of a man alive."
"If a man knows not to which port he sails, no wind is favorable."
"It is quality rather than quantity that matters."
"To wish to be well is a part of becoming well."
"If you wish to be loved, love."
"The greatest remedy for anger is delay."
"A man’s as miserable as he thinks he is."
"The wise man does not see anything as good or bad but as indifferent."
"If you really want to escape the things that harass you, what you’re needing is not to be in a different place but to be a different person."
"What progress, you ask, have I made? I have begun to be a friend to myself."
"Luck is what happens when preparation meets opportunity."
"He suffers more than necessary, who suffers before it is necessary."
"The man who has anticipated the coming of troubles takes away their power when they arrive."
"Wealth is the slave of a wise man. The master of a fool."
"Wisdom does not show itself so much in precept as in life—in firmness of mind and mastery of appetite."
"What need is there to weep over parts of life? The whole of it calls for tears."
"What fortune has made yours is not your own."
"To be everywhere is to be nowhere."
"If you live in harmony with nature you will never be poor; if you live according to what others think, you will never be rich."
"The greatest blessings of mankind are within us and within our reach."
On Virtue and Morality:
"Virtue is nothing else but right reason."
"To bear trials with a calm mind robs misfortune of its strength and burden."
"It is the power of the mind to be unconquerable."
"Virtue depends partly on training and partly on practice."
"There is no great genius without a mixture of madness."
"We do not despise all those who have vices, but we do despise all those who have no virtues."
"Courage leads to heaven; fear leads to death."
"One of the most beautiful qualities of true friendship is to understand and to be understood."
"No one can live happily who has regard to himself alone and transforms everything into a question of his own utility."
"True virtue is the desire to act rightly."
"The soul that is trained in virtue can face anything."
"Success will follow virtue as if it were its shadow."
"Constant exposure to dangers will breed contempt for them."
"The man who has anticipated the coming of troubles takes away their power when they arrive."
"To bear trials with a calm mind robs misfortune of its strength and burden."
"The reward of a good deed is in having done it."
"No evil propensity of the human heart is so powerful that it may not be subdued by discipline."
"What madness it is to be expecting evil before it comes!"
"Men are so thoughtless, nay, so mad, that some, through fear of dying, are driven to kill themselves."
"Virtue alone affords everlasting and unfailing joy."
"There is no delight in owning anything unshared."
"Every guilty person is his own hangman."
"One crime has to be concealed by another."
"Virtue is free, inviolable, unmoved, unshaken."
"Wherever there is a human being, there is an opportunity for kindness."
On Death and Mortality:
"It is not death that a man should fear, but he should fear never beginning to live."
"What is death? Either a transition or an end."
"Death is the wish of some, the relief of many, and the end of all."
"Death is the punishment of the tyrant; life, of the slave."
"It is more difficult to escape from the past than to escape from a dungeon."
"Life is neither good or bad, but only a place for good and bad."
"Death is a release from the impressions of the senses, and from desires."
"It is foolish to live in misery just to die rich."
"The day which we fear as our last is but the birthday of eternity."
"No one can have a peaceful life who thinks too much about lengthening it."
"The final hour when we cease to exist does not itself bring death."
"That which you often hear spoken by all men, so that even the common people will repeat it, must necessarily contain some truth."
"All art is but imitation of nature."
"Nothing is so bitter that a calm mind cannot find comfort in it."
"It is a great thing to know the season for speech and the season for silence."
"You are but mortal: let nothing which is inevitable be a cause for dread."
"Death is not the worst evil, but rather when we wish to die and cannot."
"The wise man regards the reason for all his actions, but not the results."
"No evil is honorable: but death is honorable; therefore death is not evil."
"He who fears death will never do anything worth of a man who is alive."
"He who fears death will never do anything worth of a living man."
"Why do you dread death, since you are not certain that it will do you any harm?"
"What you are afraid to do is a clear indication of the next thing you need to do."
"Death is the last line of the book."
"He who does not fear death is outside the power of any man."
On Anger and Emotions:
"Anger, if not restrained, is frequently more hurtful to us than the injury that provokes it."
"Anger, if not restrained, is frequently more hurtful to us than the injury that provokes it."
"He who is brave is free."
"The greatest remedy for anger is delay."
"No man is free who is a slave to his body."
"Most powerful is he who has himself in his own power."
"The greatest remedy for anger is delay."
"The best cure for anger is delay."
"The greatest wealth is a poverty of desires."








