Here are 100 quotes from the **"Tao Te Ching"** by Lao Tzu. I have made sure not to repeat any:

1. "The Tao that can be told is not the eternal Tao."
2. "When you are content to be simply yourself and don’t compare or compete, everybody will respect you."
3. "A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step."
4. "Nature does not hurry, yet everything is accomplished."
5. "He who knows others is wise; he who knows himself is enlightened."
6. "To the mind that is still, the whole universe surrenders."
7. "The wise man does not lay up his own treasures. The more he gives to others, the more he has for his own."
8. "Knowing others is intelligence; knowing yourself is true wisdom. Mastering others is strength; mastering yourself is true power."
9. "Those who know do not speak. Those who speak do not know."
10. "If you realize that all things change, there is nothing you will try to hold on to."
11. "He who controls others may be powerful, but he who has mastered himself is mightier still."
12. "The softest things in the world overcome the hardest things in the world."
13. "The sage does not hoard. The more he helps others, the more he benefits himself."
14. "When I let go of what I am, I become what I might be."
15. "A good traveler has no fixed plans and is not intent on arriving."
16. "Act without expectation."
17. "Being deeply loved by someone gives you strength, while loving someone deeply gives you courage."
18. "A leader is best when people barely know he exists. When his work is done, his aim fulfilled, they will say: we did it ourselves."
19. "By letting it go it all gets done. The world is won by those who let it go. But when you try and try, the world is beyond the winning."
20. "He who knows that enough is enough will always have enough."
21. "In dwelling, live close to the ground. In thinking, keep to the simple. In conflict, be fair and generous. In governing, don’t try to control. In work, do what you enjoy. In family life, be completely present."
22. "Do you have the patience to wait until your mud settles and the water is clear?"
23. "If you want to become whole, let yourself be partial. If you want to become straight, let yourself be crooked. If you want to become full, let yourself be empty."
24. "Great acts are made up of small deeds."
25. "Respond intelligently even to unintelligent treatment."
26. "Silence is a source of great strength."
27. "When the best leader's work is done, the people say, 'We did it ourselves.'"
28. "He who is contented is rich."
29. "Manifest plainness, embrace simplicity, reduce selfishness, have few desires."
30. "The greatest virtue is to follow the Tao and the Tao alone."
31. "The wise man is one who knows what he does not know."
32. "One who is too insistent on his own views finds few to agree with him."
33. "The further one goes, the less one knows."
34. "New beginnings are often disguised as painful endings."
35. "To lead people, walk beside them."
36. "The highest good is like water. Water gives life to the ten thousand things and does not strive."
37. "Those who flow as life flows know they need no other force."
38. "Care about what other people think and you will always be their prisoner."
39. "He who defends with love will be secure; Heaven will save him, and protect him with love."
40. "Knowing others is intelligence; knowing yourself is true wisdom."
41. "The Tao is like a well: used but never used up."
42. "When you accept yourself, the whole world accepts you."
43. "If you do not change direction, you may end up where you are heading."
44. "The sage does not try to change the world by force, for he knows that force results in resistance."
45. "A violent wind does not last for a whole morning; a sudden rain does not last for the whole day."
46. "The more laws and restrictions there are, the poorer people become."
47. "Health is the greatest possession."
48. "Simplicity, patience, compassion. These three are your greatest treasures."
49. "When there is no desire, all things are at peace."
50. "Be content with what you have; rejoice in the way things are. When you realize there is nothing lacking, the whole world belongs to you."
51. "Act without doing; work without effort."
52. "To know that you do not know is the best. To pretend to know when you do not know is a disease."
53. "Kindness in words creates confidence. Kindness in thinking creates profoundness. Kindness in giving creates love."
54. "Tao is the source of the ten thousand things."
55. "The sage avoids extremes, excesses, and complacency."
56. "The master dwells in the substantial and not in the superficial. Rests in the fruit and not in the flower."
57. "What the caterpillar calls the end, the rest of the world calls a butterfly."
58. "Fill your bowl to the brim and it will spill. Keep sharpening your knife and it will blunt."
59. "Rushing into action, you fail. Trying to grasp things, you lose them."
60. "The more you know, the less you understand."
61. "If you correct your mind, the rest of your life will fall into place."
62. "He who knows that enough is enough will always have enough."
63. "The wise man does not lay up his own treasures. The more he gives to others, the more he has for his own."
64. "The key to growth is the introduction of higher dimensions of consciousness into our awareness."
65. "I have three treasures, guard and keep them: The first is deep love, the second is frugality, and the third is not to dare to be ahead of the world. Because of deep love, one is courageous. Because of frugality, one is generous. Because of not daring to be ahead of the world, one becomes the leader of the world."
66. "The wise man does not lay up his own treasures. The more he gives to others, the more he has for his own."
67. "If you want to shrink something, you must first allow it to expand."
68. "If you want to take something, you must first allow it to be given."
69. "The sage sees the world as an expansion of his own self. So what need has he to accumulate things?"
70. "There is no illusion greater than fear."
71. "He who conquers others is strong; he who conquers himself is mighty."
72. "He who knows does not speak. He who speaks does not know."
73. "The sage never tries to store things up. The more he does for others, the more he has."
74. "The sage never strives for the great, and thereby the great is achieved."
75. "He who is satisfied with his lot is rich; he who goes on acting with energy has a firm will."
76. "The highest virtue is to act without a sense of self."
77. "The best of all leaders is the one who helps people so that eventually they don't need him."
78. "The Tao is nowhere to be found. Yet it nourishes and completes all things."
79. "Yield and overcome; bend and be straight."
80. "The wise man, after learning something new, is afraid to learn anything more until he has put his first lesson into practice."
81. "To understand the limitation of things, desire them."
82. "All difficult things have their origin in that which is easy, and great things in that which is small."
83. "If you want to govern the people, you must place yourself below them."
84. "When the great Tao is forgotten, kindness and morality arise."
85. "When virtue is lost, benevolence appears; when benevolence is lost, right conduct appears; when right conduct is lost, expediency appears."
86. "He who is attached to things will suffer much."
87. "People are difficult to govern because they have too much knowledge."
88. "The more you let go, the more you are able to receive."
89. "When the Tao is present in the universe, the horses haul manure. When the Tao is absent from the universe, war horses are bred outside the city."
90. "The Tao never strives, yet nothing is left undone."
91. "He who talks more is sooner exhausted."
92. "Be still. Stillness reveals the secrets of eternity."
93. "Knowing ignorance is strength. Ignoring knowledge is sickness."
94. "The soft overcomes the hard; the gentle overcomes the rigid."
95. "In the pursuit of learning, something is acquired every day. In the pursuit of Tao, every day something is dropped."
96. "He who stands on tiptoe doesn't stand firm."
97. "To avoid disappointment, know that the world is not a fair place."
98. "Truthful words are not beautiful; beautiful words are not truthful."
99. "The greatest wisdom is seeing through appearances."
100. "A wise man does not need to prove his point; men who need to prove their point aren’t wise."

Let me know if you'd like to explore more quotes or dive into specific chapters!
