Here are **100 quotes** from Warren Buffett:

1. "Rule No. 1: Never lose money. Rule No. 2: Never forget rule No. 1."
2. "Price is what you pay. Value is what you get."
3. "Risk comes from not knowing what you're doing."
4. "It's far better to buy a wonderful company at a fair price than a fair company at a wonderful price."
5. "The stock market is designed to transfer money from the Active to the Patient."
6. "Our favorite holding period is forever."
7. "If you aren't willing to own a stock for ten years, don't even think about owning it for ten minutes."
8. "Be fearful when others are greedy, and greedy when others are fearful."
9. "Time is the friend of the wonderful business, the enemy of the mediocre."
10. "Someone's sitting in the shade today because someone planted a tree a long time ago."
11. "In the business world, the rearview mirror is always clearer than the windshield."
12. "It’s better to hang out with people better than you. Pick out associates whose behavior is better than yours, and you’ll drift in that direction."
13. "The most important investment you can make is in yourself."
14. "You only have to do a very few things right in your life so long as you don't do too many things wrong."
15. "Predicting rain doesn’t count. Building arks does."
16. "The best thing I did was to choose the right heroes."
17. "Chains of habit are too light to be felt until they are too heavy to be broken."
18. "I will tell you how to become rich. Close the doors. Be fearful when others are greedy. Be greedy when others are fearful."
19. "Opportunities come infrequently. When it rains gold, put out the bucket, not the thimble."
20. "There seems to be some perverse human characteristic that likes to make easy things difficult."
21. "I try to buy stock in businesses that are so wonderful that an idiot can run them. Because sooner or later, one will."
22. "The first rule is not to lose. The second rule is not to forget the first rule."
23. "The difference between successful people and really successful people is that really successful people say no to almost everything."
24. "Wall Street is the only place that people ride to in a Rolls Royce to get advice from those who take the subway."
25. "Never invest in a business you cannot understand."
26. "I always knew I was going to be rich. I don’t think I ever doubted it for a minute."
27. "It takes 20 years to build a reputation and five minutes to ruin it. If you think about that, you’ll do things differently."
28. "Honesty is a very expensive gift, don’t expect it from cheap people."
29. "The stock market is a device for transferring money from the impatient to the patient."
30. "You only learn who has been swimming naked when the tide goes out."
31. "If a business does well, the stock eventually follows."
32. "There are no called strikes in the ball game of investing. You do not have to swing at everything—you can wait for your pitch."
33. "Do not take yearly results too seriously. Instead, focus on four or five-year averages."
34. "You don’t need to be a rocket scientist. Investing is not a game where the guy with the 160 IQ beats the guy with the 130 IQ."
35. "Only buy something that you’d be perfectly happy to hold if the market shut down for 10 years."
36. "The best chance to deploy capital is when things are going down."
37. "Forecasts may tell you a great deal about the forecaster; they tell you nothing about the future."
38. "The investor of today does not profit from yesterday’s growth."
39. "Do not save what is left after spending; instead, spend what is left after saving."
40. "The more you learn, the more you earn."
41. "Never depend on a single income, make an investment to create a second source."
42. "It’s not necessary to do extraordinary things to get extraordinary results."
43. "In the business world, the rearview mirror is always clearer than the windshield."
44. "In the long run, it’s not how much you make, it’s how much you keep, how much it grows, and how long you let it grow."
45. "If you get to my age in life and nobody thinks well of you, I don’t care how big your bank account is, your life is a disaster."
46. "Risk is part of God’s game, alike for men and nations."
47. "The most important quality for an investor is temperament, not intellect."
48. "When you combine ignorance and leverage, you get some pretty interesting results."
49. "The trick is, when there is nothing to do, do nothing."
50. "Keep all your eggs in one basket, but watch that basket closely."
51. "You can’t produce a baby in one month by getting nine women pregnant."
52. "It is not necessary to do extraordinary things to get extraordinary results."
53. "Diversification is a protection against ignorance. It makes very little sense for those who know what they’re doing."
54. "I always knew I was going to be rich. I don't think I ever doubted it for a minute."
55. "When forced to choose, I will not trade even a night's sleep for the chance of extra profits."
56. "You don’t need to be a genius in what you do."
57. "We simply attempt to be fearful when others are greedy and to be greedy only when others are fearful."
58. "In the world of business, the people who are most successful are those who are doing what they love."
59. "No matter how great the talent or efforts, some things just take time."
60. "When we own portions of outstanding businesses with outstanding managements, our favorite holding period is forever."
61. "Cash combined with courage in a time of crisis is priceless."
62. "Successful investing takes time, discipline, and patience. No matter how great the talent or effort, some things just take time."
63. "Wide diversification is only required when investors do not understand what they are doing."
64. "The best investment you can make is in your own abilities."
65. "I am a better investor because I am a businessman, and a better businessman because I am an investor."
66. "If you don’t find a way to make money while you sleep, you will work until you die."
67. "Wall Street makes its money on activity. You make your money on inactivity."
68. "In looking for people to hire, look for three qualities: integrity, intelligence, and energy. And if they don't have the first, the other two will kill you."
69. "It's better to buy a great company at a fair price than a fair company at a great price."
70. "I do more reading and thinking, and make less impulse decisions than most people in business."
71. "In the 20th century, the United States endured two world wars and other traumatic and expensive military conflicts; the Depression; a dozen or so recessions and financial panics; oil shocks; a flu epidemic; and the resignation of a disgraced president. Yet the Dow rose from 66 to 11,497."
72. "The difference between successful people and really successful people is that really successful people say no to almost everything."
73. "The business schools reward difficult complex behavior more than simple behavior, but simple behavior is more effective."
74. "You cannot make a good deal with a bad person."
75. "It’s only when the tide goes out that you discover who's been swimming naked."
76. "We don't have to be smarter than the rest. We have to be more disciplined than the rest."
77. "If you don’t feel comfortable owning something for 10 years, then don’t own it for 10 minutes."
78. "The best thing that happens to us is when a great company gets into temporary trouble... We want to buy them when they’re on the operating table."
79. "It is a mistake to try to look too far ahead. The chain of destiny can only be grasped one link at a time."
80. "One of the best ways to keep from making mistakes is to learn from other people's mistakes."
81. "The best way to be safe is to invest in your future."
82. "A simple rule dictates my buying: Be fearful when others are greedy, and be greedy when others are fearful."
83. "In the end, how your investments behave is much less important than how you behave."
84. "I would rather buy a wonderful business at a fair price than a fair business at a wonderful price."
85. "One’s objective should be to get it right, get it quick, get it out, and get it over."
86. "The rich invest in time, the poor invest in money."
87. "If past history was all there was to the game, the richest people would be librarians."
88. "Why not invest your assets in the companies you really like? As Mae West said, 'Too much of a good thing can be wonderful.'"
89. "I measure success by how many people love me."
90. "Opportunities come infrequently. When it rains gold, put out the bucket, not the thimble."
91. "The most important investment you can make is in yourself."
92. "The most important quality for an investor is temperament, not intellect."
93. "If you have to closely follow a company, you shouldn't own it."
94. "The key to investing is not assessing

 how much an industry is going to affect society, or how much it will grow, but rather determining the competitive advantage of any given company and, above all, the durability of that advantage."
95. "You know, people talk about this being an uncertain time. You know, all time is uncertain."
96. "Your best investment is yourself. There is nothing that compares to it."
97. "Widespread fear is your friend as an investor because it serves up bargain purchases."
98. "We always live in an uncertain world. What is certain is that the United States will go forward over time."
99. "We enjoy the process far more than the proceeds."
100. "There’s no shame in getting rich slowly."

These quotes reflect Warren Buffett's wisdom on investing, business, and life.
