"To succeed in life requires a total inability to do anything that makes you uncomfortable when you look at yourself in the mirror." ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb
"Never take advice from someone wearing a tie." ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb
"When you develop your opinions on the basis of weak evidence, you will have difficulty interpreting subsequent information that contradicts these opinions, even if this new information is obviously more accurate." ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb
"In science you need to understand the world; in business you need others to misunderstand it." ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb
"Ideas come and go, stories stay." ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb
"Mental clarity is the child of courage, not the other way around." ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb
"The imagination of the genius vastly surpasses his intellect; the intellect of the academic vastly surpasses his imagination" ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb

"Daily news and sugar confuse our system in the same manner." ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb
"I want to live happily in a world I don’t understand." ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb
"Umberto Eco is the owner of a large personal library of almost 30,000 books that he has not read. [To him] read books are far less valuable than unread ones." ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb
"The irony of the process of thought control: the more energy you put into trying to control your ideas and what you think about, the more your ideas end up controlling you." ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb
"The best test of whether someone is extremely stupid (or extremely wise) is whether financial and political news makes sense to him." ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb
"An option hides where we don't want it to hide." ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb

"Never think that lack of variability is stability. Don't confuse lack of volatility with stability, ever." ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb
"Probability is not about the odds, but about the belief in the existence of an alternative outcome, cause, or motive." ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb
"The fool generalizes the particular; the nerd particularizes the general; some do both; and the wise does neither" ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb
"The track record of economists in predicting events is monstrously bad. It is beyond simplification; it is like medieval medicine." ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb
"Wittgenstein's ruler: Unless you have confidence in the ruler's reliability, if you use a ruler to measure a table you may also be using the table to measure the ruler." ~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb

People are more intresting in what they don't mention in dating than they mention in dating 



