The ultimate value of life depens upon awarness & the power of contemplation rather than mere survival

Philosophy has taught me this: to do voluntairly what others are compelled to do fear of the law
Youth is quick to deceived because they are quick to hope 
In all things of nature there is something of the marvellous
The law of reason free from passion


"It does not matter how slowly you go as long as you do not stop."
"Our greatest glory is not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall."
"Real knowledge is to know the extent of one's ignorance."
"When we see men of a contrary character, we should turn inwards and examine ourselves."
"The superior man is modest in his speech but exceeds in his actions."
"He who learns but does not think is lost; he who thinks but does not learn is in great danger."
"To see what is right and not do it is the want of courage."
"By three methods we may learn wisdom: First, by reflection, which is noblest; Second, by imitation, which is easiest; and third by experience, which is the bitterest."
"The man who asks a question is a fool for a minute, the man who does not ask is a fool for life."
"Study the past if you would define the future."
"It is more shameful to distrust our friends than to be deceived by them."
"The superior man thinks always of virtue; the common man thinks of comfort."
"Respect yourself and others will respect you."
"When anger rises, think of the consequences."
"Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day in your life."
"The journey with a thousand miles begins with one step."
"He who speaks without modesty will find it difficult to make his words good."
"The cautious seldom err."
"Wisdom, compassion, and courage are the three universally recognized moral qualities of men."
"What you do not want done to yourself, do not do to others."
"Ignorance is the night of the mind, but a night without moon and star."
"The more man meditates upon good thoughts, the better will be his world and the world at large."
"When we see men of a contrary character, we should turn inwards and examine ourselves."
"If a man takes no thought about what is distant, he will find sorrow near at hand."
"The superior man is modest in his speech but exceeds in his actions."
"Success depends upon previous preparation, and without such preparation, there is sure to be failure."
"To be wronged is nothing unless you continue to remember it."
"To know what you know and what you do not know, that is true knowledge."
"He who learns but does not think is lost; he who thinks but does not learn is in great danger."
"It is easy to hate and it is difficult to love. This is how the whole scheme of things works. All good things are difficult to achieve; and bad things are very easy to get."
"He who acts with a constant view to his own advantage will be much murmured against."
"If we don't know life, how can we know death?"
"A superior man is modest in his speech but exceeds in his actions."
"Learning without thought is labor lost; thought without learning is perilous."
"The superior man is distressed by his want of ability."
"The superior man is slow in his words and earnest in his conduct."
"The faults of a superior person are like the sun and moon. They have their faults, and everyone sees them; they change and everyone looks up to them."
"Fine words and an insinuating appearance are seldom associated with true virtue."
"Virtue is not left to stand alone. He who practices it will have neighbors."
"The firm, the enduring, the simple, and the modest are near to virtue."
"To see the right and not do it is the want of courage."
"Virtue is not solitary; it is bound to have neighbors."
"The object of the superior man is truth."
"He who exercises government by means of his virtue may be compared to the north polar star, which keeps its place and all the stars turn towards it."
"The strength of a nation derives from the integrity of the home."
"When a person should be spoken with and you don't speak with them, you lose that person. When a person shouldn't be spoken with and you speak to them, you waste your words. The wise do not lose people, nor do they waste their words."
"The superior man acts before he speaks, and afterwards speaks according to his action."
"To go beyond is as wrong as to fall short."
"A gentleman would be ashamed should his deeds not match his words."
"What the superior man seeks is in himself; what the small man seeks is in others."



