"One can choose to go back toward safety or forward toward growth. Growth must be chosen again and again; fear must be overcome again and again." ~ Abraham Maslow
"When people appear to be something other than good and decent, it is only because they are reacting to stress, pain, or the deprivation of basic human needs such as security, love, and self-esteem." ~ Abraham Maslow
"You will either step forward into growth or you will step back into safety." ~ Abraham Maslow
"All of life is education and everybody is a teacher and everybody is forever a pupil." ~ Abraham Maslow
"If you plan on being anything less than you are capable of being, you will probably be unhappy all the days of your life." ~ Abraham Maslow
"What is necessary to change a person is to change his awareness of himself." ~ Abraham Maslow
"Education is learning to grow, learning what to grow toward, learning what is good and bad, learning what is desirable and undesirable, learning what to choose and what not to choose." ~ Abraham Maslow
"The only happy people I know are the ones who are working well at something they consider important." ~ Abraham Maslow
"One of the goals of education should be to teach that life is precious." ~ Abraham Maslow
"A positive self image and healthy self esteem is based on approval, acceptance and recognition from others; but also upon actual accomplishments, achievements and success upon the realistic self confidence which ensues." ~ Abraham Maslow
"We crave and fear becoming truly ourselves" ~ Abraham Maslow
"The good or healthy society would then be defined as one that permitted people's highest purposes to emerge by satisfying all their basic needs." ~ Abraham Maslow
"The spiritual life is part of the human essence. It is a defining characteristic of human nature, without which human nature is not fully human." ~ Abraham Maslow
"The sacred is in the ordinary...it is to be found in one's daily life, in one's neighbors, friends, and family, in one's own backyard...travel may be a flight from confronting the scared--this lesson can be easily lost. To be looking elsewhere for miracles is to me a sure sign of ignorance that everything is miraculous." ~ Abraham Maslow
"One's only failure is failing to live up to one's own possibilities." ~ Abraham Maslow
"Secrecy, censorship, dishonesty, and blocking of communication threaten all the basic needs." ~ Abraham Maslow
"Life is an ongoing process of choosing between safety (out of fear and need for defense) and risk (for the sake of progress and growth). Make the growth choice a dozen times a day." ~ Abraham Maslow
"A stupid man behaves stupidly, not because he wants to, or tries to, or is motivated to, but simply because he is what he is." ~ Abraham Maslow

"We must understand love; we must be able to teach it, to create it, to predict it, or else the world is lost to hostility and to suspicion." ~ Abraham Maslow














