"Self-belief does not necessarily ensure success, but self-disbelief assuredly spawns failure." ~ Albert Bandura
"Learning would be exceedingly laborious, not to mention hazardous, if people had to rely solely on the effects of their own actions to inform them what to do. Fortunately, most human behavior is learned observationally through modeling: from observing others one forms an idea of how new behaviors are performed, and on later occasions this coded information serves as a guide for action." ~ Albert Bandura
"People’s beliefs about their abilities have a profound effect on those abilities." ~ Albert Bandura
"In order to succeed, people need a sense of self-efficacy, to struggle together with resilience to meet the inevitable obstacles and inequities of life." ~ Albert Bandura
"What people think, believe, and feel affects how they behave. The natural and extrinsic effects of their actions, in turn, partly determine their thought patterns and affective reactions." ~ Albert Bandura
"Humans are producers of their life circumstance not just products of them." ~ Albert Bandura
"People who believe they have the power to exercise some measure of control over their lives are healthier, more effective and more successful than those who lack faith in their ability to effect changes in their lives." ~ Albert Bandura
"People judge their capabilities partly by comparing their performances with those of others" ~ Albert Bandura
"Most of the images of reality on which we base our actions are really based on vicarious experience." ~ Albert Bandura
"Psychology cannot tell people how they ought to live their lives. It can however, provide them with the means for effecting personal and social change." ~ Albert Bandura
"We are more heavily invested in the theories of failure than we are in the theories of success." ~ Albert Bandura
"The content of most textbooks is perishable, but the tools of self-directedness serve one well over time." ~ Albert Bandura
"If self-efficacy is lacking, people tend to behave ineffectually, even though they know what to do." ~ Albert Bandura
"Accomplishment is socially judged by ill defined criteria so that one has to rely on others to find out how one is doing." ~ Albert Bandura

























