"The curious paradox is that when I accept myself just as I am, then I can change." ~ Carl Rogers
"People only seriously consider change when they feel accepted for exactly who they are." ~ Carl Rogers
"We think we listen, but very rarely do we listen with real understanding, true empathy. Yet listening, of this very special kind, is one of the most potent forces for change that I know." ~ Carl Rogers
"Growth occurs when individuals confront problems, struggle to master them, and through that struggle develop new aspects of their skills, capacities, views about life." ~ Carl Rogers
"As no one else can know how we perceive, we are the best experts on ourselves." ~ Carl Rogers
"A person cannot teach another person directly; a person can only facilitate another's learning" ~ Carl Rogers
"When the other person is hurting, confused, troubled, anxious, alienated, terrified; or when he or she is doubtful of self-worth, uncertain as to identity, then understanding is called for. The gentle and sensitive companionship of an empathic stance… provides illumination and healing. In such situations deep understanding is, I believe, the most precious gift one can give to another." ~ Carl Rogers
"The good life is a process, not a state of being. It is a direction not a destination." ~ Carl Rogers
"In my early professional years I was asking the question: How can I treat, or cure, or change this person? Now I would phrase the question in this way: How can I provide a relationship which this person may use for his own personal growth?" ~ Carl Rogers
"The only person who cannot be helped is that person who blames others." ~ Carl Rogers
"What you are to be, you are now becoming." ~ Carl Rogers
"When a person realizes he has been deeply heard, his eyes moisten. I think in some real sense he is weeping for joy. It is as though he were saying, "Thank God, somebody heard me. Someone knows what it's like to be me"." ~ Carl Rogers
"The degree to which I can create relationships, which facilitate the growth of others as separate persons, is a measure of the growth I have achieved in myself." ~ Carl Rogers
"Man's inability to communicate is a result of his failure to listen effectively." ~ Carl Rogers
"The only reality I can possibly know is the world as I perceive it at this moment. The only reality you can possibly know is the world as you see it at this moment. And the only certainty is that those perceived realities are different. There are as many “real worlds” as there are people!" ~ Carl Rogers
"Each person is an island unto himself, in a very real sense; and he can only build bridges to other islands if he is first of all willing to be himself and permitted to be himself." ~ Carl Rogers







