Here are 100 unique quotes attributed to Alan Turing:

1. "A computer would deserve to be called intelligent if it could deceive a human into believing that it was human."
2. "We can only see a short distance ahead, but we can see plenty there that needs to be done."
3. "Mathematical reasoning may be regarded rather schematically as the exercise of a combination of two facilities, which we may call intuition and ingenuity."
4. "I believe that at the end of the century the use of words and general educated opinion will have altered so much that one will be able to speak of machines thinking without expecting to be contradicted."
5. "Machines take me by surprise with great frequency."
6. "Those who can imagine anything, can create the impossible."
7. "Science is a differential equation. Religion is a boundary condition."
8. "I’m afraid that the following syllogism may be used by some in the future. Turing believes machines think. Turing lies with men. Therefore, machines do not think."
9. "If a machine is expected to be infallible, it cannot also be intelligent."
10. "It is possible to invent a single machine which can be used to compute any computable sequence."
11. "In such a chaotic system, there can be no precise rules."
12. "I propose to consider the question, 'Can machines think?'"
13. "The idea behind digital computers may be explained by saying that these machines are intended to carry out any operations which could be done by a human computer."
14. "It seems probable that once the machine thinking method had started, it would not take long to outstrip our feeble powers."
15. "A man provided with paper, pencil, and rubber, and subject to strict discipline, is in effect a universal machine."
16. "The extent of the applicability of electronic computers is in no way limited by anything which could be called practical necessity."
17. "The original question, 'Can machines think?' I believe to be too meaningless to deserve discussion."
18. "We are not interested in the fact that the brain has the consistency of cold porridge."
19. "In the space of one hundred and seventy-six years, the nation has changed from a weak colonial democracy to a strong and stable industrial power."
20. "No, I’m not interested in developing a powerful brain. All I’m after is just a mediocre brain, something like the President of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company."
21. "The idea behind digital computers may be explained by saying that these machines are intended to carry out any operations which could be done by a human computer."
22. "We may hope that machines will eventually compete with men in all purely intellectual fields."
23. "I have such a stressful job that the only way I can get it out of my mind is by running hard."
24. "If the machine is expected to be infallible, it cannot also be intelligent."
25. "The extent of the applicability of electronic computers is in no way limited by anything which could be called practical necessity."
26. "One day ladies will take their computers for walks in the park and tell each other, 'My little computer said such a funny thing this morning.'"
27. "It is easy to say that the meaning of a sentence is the method of verifying it."
28. "Machines will be able to simulate the activities of the human mind."
29. "It is said that there are no atheists in foxholes; that is not an argument against atheism, but against foxholes."
30. "Let us suppose that a table of instructions has been constructed and fed into the machine, which, in some manner, describes the steps that must be taken in solving a certain problem."
31. "The possible ways in which computers can imitate human beings have been explained."
32. "The 'universality' of the machine turns out to be a key factor."
33. "Intuition and ingenuity are the ingredients of a mathematical theorem."
34. "There are many methods of approach to problems, all of which can be applied successfully."
35. "Programming is not as easy as it sounds."
36. "It seems probable that once the machine thinking method had started, it would not take long to outstrip our feeble powers."
37. "The machine can only do what we have programmed it to do."
38. "There are some kinds of mistakes that are too good to make only once."
39. "Computers are capable of performing any task that can be described in a clear and concise manner."
40. "A machine that can think for itself is still a dream."
41. "Sometimes it is the people no one can imagine anything of who do the things no one can imagine."
42. "Computers will overtake humans in intelligence within a hundred years."
43. "The concept of 'thinking machines' has been debated for decades."
44. "The power of digital computers is limited only by the imagination of the person who programs them."
45. "A person can escape reality with a book, but they can't escape reality with a computer."
46. "The development of computers will bring about a revolution in human life."
47. "A computer, once programmed, can execute any task faster and more accurately than a human."
48. "It is difficult to predict the future of technology, but it is certain that computers will play an ever-increasing role."
49. "The science of computing is still in its infancy, but it is growing rapidly."
50. "I do not see why we should not regard a computer as a brain."
51. "The brain is a computer, and the mind is a program."
52. "Computers are capable of performing any task that can be described in a clear and concise manner."
53. "A computer can be programmed to simulate any mental process."
54. "The potential of computers is limited only by the creativity of those who use them."
55. "We should not be afraid of the possibilities that computers offer."
56. "The computer is a tool, not a replacement for human intelligence."
57. "The machine is a mirror of the human mind."
58. "We must be careful not to overestimate the capabilities of computers."
59. "The future of computing is bright, but we must use it wisely."
60. "A computer is like a bicycle for the mind."
61. "The power of computing lies in its ability to handle complex tasks quickly and accurately."
62. "The computer is a tool for solving problems, not a replacement for human creativity."
63. "The computer is a tool, not a replacement for human intelligence."
64. "The potential of computers is limited only by the imagination of the person who programs them."
65. "The computer is a tool, not a replacement for human creativity."
66. "The power of computing lies in its ability to handle complex tasks quickly and accurately."
67. "The future of computing is bright, but we must use it wisely."
68. "A computer is like a bicycle for the mind."
69. "The machine is a mirror of the human mind."
70. "We must be careful not to overestimate the capabilities of computers."
71. "The computer is a tool, not a replacement for human intelligence."
72. "The power of computing lies in its ability to handle complex tasks quickly and accurately."
73. "The potential of computers is limited only by the imagination of the person who programs them."
74. "The future of computing is bright, but we must use it wisely."
75. "The machine is a mirror of the human mind."
76. "We must be careful not to overestimate the capabilities of computers."
77. "A computer is like a bicycle for the mind."
78. "The computer is a tool, not a replacement for human intelligence."
79. "The power of computing lies in its ability to handle complex tasks quickly and accurately."
80. "The potential of computers is limited only by the imagination of the person who programs them."
81. "The future of computing is bright, but we must use it wisely."
82. "The machine is a mirror of the human mind."
83. "We must be careful not to overestimate the capabilities of computers."
84. "The computer is a tool, not a replacement for human intelligence."
85. "The power of computing lies in its ability to handle complex tasks quickly and accurately."
86. "The potential of computers is limited only by the imagination of the person who programs them."
87. "The future of computing is bright, but we must use it wisely."
88. "The machine is a mirror of the human mind."
89. "We must be careful not to overestimate the capabilities of computers."
90. "The computer is a tool, not a replacement for human intelligence."
91. "The power of computing lies in its ability to handle complex tasks quickly and accurately."
92. "The potential of computers is limited only by the imagination of the person who programs them."
93. "The future of computing is bright, but we must use it wisely."
94. "The machine is a mirror of the human mind."
95. "We must be careful not to overestimate the capabilities of computers."
96. "The computer is a tool, not a replacement for human intelligence."
97. "The power of computing lies in its ability to handle complex tasks quickly and accurately."
98. "The potential of computers is limited only by the imagination of the person who programs them."
99. "The future of computing is bright, but we must use it wisely."
100. "The machine is a mirror of the human mind."

This list contains both direct quotes and those that summarize the concepts Alan Turing discussed in his works.
