Here’s an extensive list of quotes attributed to Albert Einstein:
Solitude is painful when one is young, but delightful when one is more mature
Intellectuals solve problems, geniuses prevent them
"Imagination is more important than knowledge. For knowledge is limited, whereas imagination embraces the entire world."
"Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance, you must keep moving."
"Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new."
"I have no special talent. I am only passionately curious."
"The important thing is not to stop questioning. Curiosity has its own reason for existing."
"Try not to become a man of success, but rather try to become a man of value."
"Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results."
"If you can't explain it to a six-year-old, you don't understand it yourself."
"Two things are infinite: the universe and human stupidity; and I'm not sure about the universe."
"We cannot solve our problems with the same thinking we used when we created them."
"Logic will get you from A to B. Imagination will take you everywhere."
"It is the supreme art of the teacher to awaken joy in creative expression and knowledge."
"The true sign of intelligence is not knowledge but imagination."
"The only source of knowledge is experience."
"Once you stop learning, you start dying."
"The difference between genius and stupidity is that genius has its limits."
"A person who never made a mistake never tried anything new."
"Education is what remains after one has forgotten what one has learned in school."
"If we knew what it was we were doing, it would not be called research, would it?"
"The most beautiful thing we can experience is the mysterious. It is the source of all true art and science."
"Strive not to be a success, but rather to be of value."
"Look deep into nature, and then you will understand everything better."
"It's not that I'm so smart, it's just that I stay with problems longer."
"Peace cannot be kept by force; it can only be achieved by understanding."
"In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity."
"If you want to live a happy life, tie it to a goal, not to people or things."
"Only a life lived for others is a life worthwhile."
"I speak to everyone in the same way, whether he is the garbage man or the president of the university."
"The world as we have created it is a process of our thinking. It cannot be changed without changing our thinking."
"When the solution is simple, God is answering."
"A human being is part of a whole called by us the universe, a part limited in time and space."
"A clever person solves a problem. A wise person avoids it."
"Everything should be made as simple as possible, but not simpler."
"Blind belief in authority is the greatest enemy of truth."
"Great spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre minds."
"It has become appallingly obvious that our technology has exceeded our humanity."
"I never think of the future. It comes soon enough."
"You never fail until you stop trying."
"The pursuit of truth and beauty is a sphere of activity in which we are permitted to remain children all our lives."
"The monotony and solitude of a quiet life stimulates the creative mind."
"Gravitation is not responsible for people falling in love."
"The hardest thing in the world to understand is the income tax."
"A man should look for what is, and not for what he thinks should be."
"If I were not a physicist, I would probably be a musician. I often think in music."
"I live in that solitude which is painful in youth, but delicious in the years of maturity."
"The value of a man should be seen in what he gives and not in what he is able to receive."
"I want to know God's thoughts; the rest are details."
"The whole of science is nothing more than a refinement of everyday thinking."
"You ask me if I keep a notebook to record my great ideas. I've only ever had one."
"Imagination is everything. It is the preview of life's coming attractions."
"We can't solve problems by using the same kind of thinking we used when we created them."
"A question that sometimes drives me hazy: am I or are the others crazy?"
"A happy man is too satisfied with the present to dwell too much on the future."
"Nationalism is an infantile disease. It is the measles of mankind."
"Science without religion is lame, religion without science is blind."
"Information is not knowledge."
"I believe in standardizing automobiles, not human beings."
"God does not play dice with the universe."
"The measure of intelligence is the ability to change."
"Creativity is intelligence having fun."
"No amount of experimentation can ever prove me right; a single experiment can prove me wrong."
"The most incomprehensible thing about the world is that it is comprehensible."
"Out of clutter, find simplicity. From discord, find harmony. In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity."
"You cannot simultaneously prevent and prepare for war."
"I never teach my pupils. I only attempt to provide the conditions in which they can learn."
"There are only two ways to live your life. One is as though nothing is a miracle. The other is as though everything is a miracle."
"Whoever is careless with the truth in small matters cannot be trusted with important matters."
"Anger dwells only in the bosom of fools."
"I have no special talents. I am only passionately curious."
"The tragedy of life is what dies inside a man while he lives."
"Pure mathematics is, in its way, the poetry of logical ideas."
"There comes a time when the mind takes a higher plane of knowledge but can never prove how it got there."
"I am enough of an artist to draw freely upon my imagination."
"A person starts to live when he can live outside himself."
"The world is a dangerous place to live; not because of the people who are evil, but because of the people who don't do anything about it."
"He who can no longer pause to wonder and stand rapt in awe, is as good as dead; his eyes are closed."
"I think and think for months and years. Ninety-nine times, the conclusion is false. The hundredth time I am right."
"The most beautiful thing we can experience is the mysterious. It is the source of all true art and all science."
"It is my conviction that killing under the cloak of war is nothing but an act of murder."
"Memory is deceptive because it is colored by today's events."
"I love to travel, but I hate to arrive."
"I want to know how God created this world. I am not interested in this or that phenomenon, in the spectrum of this or that element. I want to know His thoughts, the rest are details."
"It is strange to be known so universally and yet to be so lonely."
"I believe in intuitions and inspirations. I sometimes feel that I am right. I do not know that I am."
"If you want your children to be intelligent, read them fairy tales. If you want them to be more intelligent, read them more fairy tales."
"The search for truth is more precious than its possession."
"To punish me for my contempt for authority, Fate has made me an authority myself."
"The faster you go, the shorter you are."
"Intellectuals solve problems, geniuses prevent them."
"Few are those who see with their own eyes and feel with their own hearts."
"A true genius admits that he/she knows nothing."
"What is right is not always popular and what is popular is not always right."
"The value of achievement lies in the achieving."
"Genius is 1% talent and 99% hard work."
"In order to form an immaculate member of a flock of sheep one must, above all, be a sheep."
"I do not believe in the God of theology who rewards good and punishes evil."
"If people are good only because they fear punishment and hope for reward, then we are a sorry lot indeed."
"Love is a better teacher than duty."
"Everything that is really great and inspiring is created by the individual who can labor in freedom."
"The true sign of intelligence is not knowledge but imagination."
"All religions, arts, and sciences are branches of the same tree."
"It is not that I'm so smart. But I stay with the questions much longer."
"An empty stomach is not a good political adviser."
"Whoever is careless with the truth in small matters cannot be trusted with important matters."
"A table, a chair, a bowl of fruit and a violin; what else does a man need to be happy?"
"Time is an illusion."
"What really interests me is whether God had any choice in the creation of the world."
"If I had only known, I would have been a locksmith."
"The only thing





