He who does not like loneliness will never get freedom

"Men are born ignorant, not stupid. They are made stupid by education." ~ Bertrand Russell
"Fear is the main source of superstition, and one of the main sources of cruelty. To conquer fear is the beginning of wisdom." ~ Bertrand Russell
"To understand the actual world as it is, not as we should wish it to be, is the beginning of wisdom." ~ Bertrand Russell

"The most valuable things in life are not measured in monetary terms. The really important things are not houses and lands, stocks and bonds, automobiles and real state, but friendships, trust, confidence, empathy, mercy, love and faith." ~ Bertrand Russell
"Freedom of opinion can only exist when the government thinks itself secure." ~ Bertrand Russell
"The experience of overcoming fear is extraordinarily delightful." ~ Bertrand Russell
"Anything you're good at contributes to happiness." ~ Bertrand Russell
"It's not what you have lost, but what you have left that counts." ~ Bertrand Russell
"Men fear thought as they fear nothing else on earth - more than ruin, more even than death. Thought is subversive and revolutionary, destructive and terrible, thought is merciless to privilege, established institutions, and comfortable habits; thought is anarchic and lawless, indifferent to authority, careless of the well-tried wisdom of the ages. Thought looks into the pit of hell and is not afraid ... Thought is great and swift and free, the light of the world, and the chief glory of man." ~ Bertrand Russell
"The key to happiness is accepting one unpleasant reality every day." ~ Bertrand Russell
"I would never die for my beliefs because I might be wrong." ~ Bertrand Russell

"We are faced with the paradoxical fact that education has become one of the chief obstacles to intelligence and freedom of thought." ~ Bertrand Russell
"To realize the unimportance of time is the gate to wisdom." ~ Bertrand Russell
"Even when the experts all agree, they may well be mistaken." ~ Bertrand Russell
"A smile happens in a flash, but its memory can last a lifetime." ~ Bertrand Russell
"War doesn't determine who's right, it determines who's left" ~ Bertrand Russell
"The greatest challenge to any thinker is stating the problem in a way that will allow a solution." ~ Bertrand Russell
"Most of the greatest evils that man has inflicted upon man have come through people feeling quite certain about something which, in fact, was false." ~ Bertrand Russell
"The secret to happiness is to face the fact that the world is horrible." ~ Bertrand Russell

"Democracy is the process by which people choose the man who'll get the blame." ~ Bertrand Russell
"Why is propaganda so much more successful when it stirs up hatred than when it tries to stir up friendly feeling?" ~ Bertrand Russell
"Every great idea starts out as a blasphemy." ~ Bertrand Russell

"The very best proof that something can be done is that someone has already done it." ~ Bertrand Russell
"I feel life is so small unless it has windows into other worlds." ~ Bertrand Russell
"What is wanted is not the will to believe, but the will to find out, which is the exact opposite." ~ Bertrand Russell
"I don't care for the applause one gets by saying what others are thinking; I want actually to change people's thoughts. Power over people's minds is the main personal desire of my life; and this sort of power is not acquired by saying popular things." ~ Bertrand Russell
"My sad conviction is that people can only agree about what they're not really interested in." ~ Bertrand Russell

"While economics is about how people make choice, sociology is about how they don't have any choice to make." ~ Bertrand Russell
 "What hunger is in relation to food, zest is in relation to life." ~ Bertrand Russell
"If we spent half an hour every day in silent immobility, I am convinced that we should conduct all our affairs, personal, national, and international, far more sanely than we do at present." ~ Bertrand Russell
"Drunkeness is temporary suicide: the happiness that it brings is merely negative, a momentary cessation of unhappiness." ~ Bertrand Russell
"The morality of work is the morality of slaves, and the modern world has no need of slavery." ~ Bertrand Russell

"The best way to become rich is to avoid being poor."
I had supposed until that time that it was quite common for parents to love their children, but the war persuaded me that it is a rare exception. I had supposed that most people liked money better than almost anything else, but I discovered that they liked destruction even better. I had supposed that intellectuals frequently loved truth, but I found here again that not ten per cent of them prefer truth to popularity. - Bertrand Russell
We love our habits more than our income, often more than our life. - Bertrand Russell
"The man who is unhappy will, as a rule, adopt an unhappy creed, while the man who is happy will adopt a happy creed; each may attribute his happiness or unhappiness to his beliefs, while the real causation is the other way round." ~ Bertrand Russell
"Scientific societies are as yet in their infancy. It is to be expected that advances in physiology and psychology will give governments much more control over individual mentality than they now have even in totalitarian countries. Fitche laid it down that education should aim at destroying free will, so that, after pupils have left school, they shall be incapable, throughout the rest of their lives, of thinking or acting otherwise than as their schoolmasters would have wished." ~ Bertrand Russell
"The happiness that is genuinely satisfying is accompanied by the fullest exercise of our faculties and the fullest realization of the world in which we live." ~ Bertrand Russell
"Choose your parents wisely." ~ Bertrand Russell

"Freedom in education has many aspects. There is first of all freedom to learn or not to learn. Then there is freedom as to what to learn. And in later education there is freedom of opinion." ~ Bertrand Russell
"To think I have spent my life on absolute muck." ~ Bertrand Russell
"Gradually, ... the aspect of science as knowledge is being thrust into the background by the aspect of science as the power of manipulating nature. It is because science gives us the power of manipulating nature that it has more social importance than art. Science as the pursuit of truth is the equal, but not the superior, of art. Science as a technique, though it may have little intrinsic value, has a practical importance to which art cannot aspire." ~ Bertrand Russell
"My own view on religion is that of Lucretius. I regard it as a disease born of fear and as a source of untold misery to the human race. I cannot, however, deny that it has made some contributions to civilisation. It helped in early days to fix the calendar, and it caused Egyptian priests to chronicle eclipses with such care that in time they became able to predict them. These two services I am prepared to acknowledge, but I do not know of any others." ~ Bertrand Russell
"A man without a bias cannot write interesting history - if indeed such a man exists." ~ Bertrand Russell
"There's a Bible on that shelf there. But I keep it next to Voltaire - poison and antidote." ~ Bertrand Russell
"When people begin to philosophize they seem to think it necessary to make themselves artificially stupid." ~ Bertrand Russell
"Worry is a form of fear." ~ Bertrand Russell
"Good nature is, of all moral qualities, the one that the world needs most, and good nature is the result of ease and security, not of a life of arduous struggle. Modern methods of production have given us the possibility of ease and security for all; we have chosen, instead, to have overwork for some and starvation for the others. Hitherto we have continued to be as energetic as we were before there were machines; in this we have been foolish, but there is no reason to go on being foolish for ever." ~ Bertrand Russell
"Fanaticism is the danger of the world, and always has been, and has done untold harm. I might almost say that I was fanatical against fanaticism." ~ Bertrand Russell

