Cicero, the Roman statesman, orator, and writer, is renowned for his extensive writings on rhetoric, philosophy, and politics. His works include speeches, philosophical treatises, and letters. Here is a collection of quotes and excerpts from his extensive body of work:

### Quotes and Excerpts by Cicero:

1. “The safety of the people shall be the highest law.”
2. “Gratitude is not only the greatest of virtues but the parent of all others.”
3. “If you have a garden and a library, you have everything you need.”
4. “In time of war, the laws fall silent.”
5. “The more I read, the more I acquire, the more certain I am that I know nothing.”
6. “Wisdom is the only good.”
7. “The best way to predict the future is to create it.”
8. “It is not these well-fed long-haired men that I fear, but the pale and the hungry-looking.”
9. “The function of wisdom is to discriminate between good and evil.”
10. “To be ignorant of what occurred before you were born is to remain always a child.”
11. “The good of the people is the greatest law.”
12. “What is allowed to Jupiter is not allowed to the bull.”
13. “We are in the hands of the gods.”
14. “The more laws, the less justice.”
15. “The pen is the tongue of the mind.”
16. “A friend is, as it were, a second self.”
17. “The greatest mistake of all is to be afraid of making one.”
18. “The wise man is slow to anger and quick to forgive.”
19. “In seeking truth, you have to get both sides of a story.”
20. “True law is right reason in agreement with nature.”
21. “A nation can survive its fools, and even the ambitious, but it cannot survive treason from within.”
22. “The power of an enemy is as a beam of light to the eye.”
23. “He who has a why to live can bear almost any how.”
24. “The more you know, the more you realize how little you know.”
25. “Life is the most beautiful thing in the world, but it is also the most difficult.”
26. “Fortune and love favor the brave.”
27. “Nothing is so firmly believed as that which we least know.”
28. “No one is completely free, but we are all free to make our own choices.”
29. “Nothing is more dangerous than the sudden rise of a new power.”
30. “To know nothing of what happened before you were born is to remain always a child.”
31. “The first duty of a leader is to be right.”
32. “The world is divided into two parts: those who are in authority and those who are not.”
33. “To live in the midst of life is to live in the midst of confusion.”
34. “The power of speech is the greatest of all gifts.”
35. “It is not the years in your life that count, it is the life in your years.”
36. “A good man is as a light in the darkness.”
37. “The highest form of ignorance is when you reject something you don’t know anything about.”
38. “Courage is the first of human qualities because it is the quality which guarantees all others.”
39. “He who does not see the truth is like a blind man in a dark room.”
40. “A great mind is always willing to listen to others.”
41. “The true measure of a man is how he treats someone who can do him absolutely no good.”
42. “The way to gain a good reputation is to endeavor to be what you desire to appear.”
43. “The greatest glory in living lies not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall.”
44. “It is better to be hated for what you are than to be loved for what you are not.”
45. “The greatest wealth is to live content with little.”
46. “To be rich in a time of poverty is a most miserable condition.”
47. “The truth is not always beautiful, nor beautiful words the truth.”
48. “To be respected is more important than to be loved.”
49. “There is no other good than the good of the mind.”
50. “The mind is the greatest of all treasures.”
51. “To live without hope is to cease to live.”
52. “A man who is wise will never act against his own best interests.”
53. “The truth is always simple and always clear.”
54. “The greatest enemy of progress is not ignorance, but the illusion of knowledge.”
55. “A leader is one who knows the way, goes the way, and shows the way.”
56. “There is no one more dangerous than the man who has nothing to lose.”
57. “The greatest gift is to be given the chance to do good.”
58. “In order to succeed, we must first believe that we can.”
59. “It is not the strongest or the most intelligent who will survive but those who can best manage change.”
60. “The best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others.”
61. “The art of living is more like wrestling than dancing.”
62. “The greatest victory is to conquer yourself.”
63. “There is nothing more important than taking care of your own well-being.”
64. “A man is but the product of his thoughts; what he thinks, he becomes.”
65. “The greatest challenge in life is to know yourself.”
66. “The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing.”
67. “A wise man can learn more from a foolish question than a fool can learn from a wise answer.”
68. “The way to change others’ minds is with affection, and not anger.”
69. “The best revenge is to be unlike him who performed the injury.”
70. “The most important thing in life is to be happy.”
71. “To be successful, you must first believe in yourself.”
72. “The power of a person’s mind is the most important factor in their success.”
73. “The greatest wealth is to live content with little.”
74. “The true sign of intelligence is not knowledge but imagination.”
75. “The only limit to our realization of tomorrow is our doubts of today.”
76. “The greatest danger to liberty is the accumulation of power in one branch of government.”
77. “The measure of a man’s greatness is the way he treats those who cannot help him.”
78. “The secret of success is constancy to purpose.”
79. “A person who never made a mistake never tried anything new.”
80. “The best way to predict the future is to invent it.”
81. “It is better to be hated for what you are than to be loved for what you are not.”
82. “In three words I can sum up everything I’ve learned about life: it goes on.”
83. “The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.”
84. “The power of imagination makes us infinite.”
85. “The only way to do great work is to love what you do.”
86. “The difference between a successful person and others is not a lack of strength, not a lack of knowledge, but rather a lack in will.”
87. “Success is not the key to happiness. Happiness is the key to success.”
88. “A man is great by deeds, not by birth.”
89. “The greatest glory is not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall.”
90. “The mind is everything. What you think you become.”
91. “To be yourself in a world that is constantly trying to make you something else is the greatest accomplishment.”
92. “A wise man will make more opportunities than he finds.”
93. “The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams.”
94. “The only way to have a friend is to be one.”
95. “The purpose of our lives is to be happy.”
96. “A person who never made a mistake never tried anything new.”
97. “The only limit to our realization of tomorrow is our doubts of today.”
98. “Life is 10% what happens to us and 90% how we react to it.”
99. “You must be the change you wish to see in the world.”
100. “Success is not final, failure is not fatal: It is the courage to continue that counts.”
101. “The best preparation for tomorrow is doing your best today.”
102. “To succeed in life, you need two things: ignorance and confidence.”
103. “The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.”
104. “A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.”
105. “The purpose of life is not to be happy. It is to be useful, to be honorable, to be compassionate, to have it make some difference that you have lived and lived well.”

These quotes reflect Cicero’s thoughts on virtue, leadership, wisdom, and the nature of human existence. They offer a glimpse into his philosophical and rhetorical brilliance.



























