"Western traditions of education have emphasized knowledge analysis, description and debate. They all have a part to play, but today there is a whole vast aspect of doing that has just been left out. Operacy is what keeps society going." ~ Edward de Bono
"You cannot look in a new direction by looking harder in the same direction." ~ Edward de Bono
You cannot dig a hole in a different place by digging the same hole deeper.
"Removing the faults in a stage-coach may produce a perfect stage-coach, but it is unlikely to produce the first motor car." ~ Edward de Bono
"As competition intensifies, the need for creative thinking increases. It is no longer enough to do the same thing better . . . no longer enough to be efficient and solve problems." ~ Edward de Bono
Mind is prepared to see what it is prepared to see
"Perception is real even when it is not reality." ~ Edward de Bono
"We need both information and thinking. Information is no substitute for thinking and thinking is no substitute for information." ~ Edward de Bono
"Language is the biggest barrier to human progress because language is an encyclopedia of ignorance. Old perceptions are frozen into language and force us to look at the world in an old fashioned way." ~ Edward de Bono
"A good listener is very nearly as attractive as a good talker. You cannot have a beautiful mind if you do not know how to listen." ~ Edward de Bono
"Studies have shown that 90% of error in thinking is due to error in perception. If you can change your perception, you can change your emotion and this can lead to new ideas." ~ Edward de Bono
"Humor is by far the most significant activity of the human brain." ~ Edward de Bono
"Companies that solely focus on competition will ultimately die. Those that focus on value creation will thrive." ~ Edward de Bono
"The need to be right all the time is the biggest bar to new ideas." ~ Edward de Bono
"Asking a question is the simplest way of focusing thinking...asking the right question may be the most important part of thinking." ~ Edward de Bono
"The vertical thinker says: 'I know what I am looking for.' The lateral thinker says: 'I am looking but I won't know what I am looking for until I have found it.'" ~ Edward de Bono
"The quality of our thinking will determine the quality of our future" ~ Edward de Bono
"To be successful you have to be lucky, or a little mad, or very talented, or find yourself in a rapid growth field." ~ Edward de Bono
"If you wait for opportunities to occur, you will be one of the crowd." ~ Edward de Bono
"Creativity involves breaking out of established patterns in order to look at things in a different way." ~ Edward de Bono
"There is no doubt that creativity is the most important human resource of all. Without creativity, there would be no progress, and we would be forever repeating the same patterns." ~ Edward de Bono
The essence of creativity is not to see things as they are, but as they might be.


                                  Problem-Solving
A good decision is one that is based on the facts available at the time
The world is full of people who have never learned to think.
The purpose of thinking is to get us out of the prison of our own minds.
You don't need to be a genius to think creatively. You need a method.

                 On Change and Innovation
Change is not always growth, but growth is always change.
Innovation is about seeing things in a new way, not simply creating something new.

                 Education and Learning
"Sometimes the situation is only a problem because it is looked at in a certain way. Looked at in another way, the right course of action may be so obvious that the problem no longer exists." ~ Edward de Bono
"You can analyse the past, but you need to design the future. That is the difference between suffering the future and enjoying it." ~ Edward de Bono
"Most of the mistakes in thinking are inadequacies of perception rather than mistakes of logic." ~ Edward de Bono

                  On Thinking and Mindsets:
"A man who does not think for himself is like a machine."
"Thinking should not be restricted to a single direction. All directions are worth exploring."
"There are many ways of thinking, and it is only when you learn to use them all that you can think in a truly creative and effective way."

                  On the Mind and Perception:
"We see things as we are, not as they are."
"What we think we know is often the result of our training, not reality."

"The simple process of focusing on things that are normally taken for granted is a powerful source of creativity." ~ Edward de Bono
"Simplicity before understanding is simplistic; simplicity after understanding is simple." ~ Edward de Bono
"Unhappiness is best defined as the difference between our talents and our expectations." ~ Edward de Bono
"Possibilities play a much bigger role in thinking than most people believe. Without possibilities you cannot make progress." ~ Edward de Bono
"What is urgent will always take precedence over what is important." ~ Edward de Bono
"An expert is someone who has succeeded in making decisions and judgements simpler through knowing what to pay attention to and what to ignore." ~ Edward de Bono
"To develop thinking as a skill, it should be deliberate, focused, confident, and enjoyable." ~ Edward de Bono
"Most executives, many scientists, and almost all business school graduates believe that if you analyze data, this will give you new ideas. Unfortunately, this belief is totally wrong. The mind can only see what it is prepared to see." ~ Edward de Bono
"Complexity means distracted effort. Simplicity means focused effort." ~ Edward de Bono
"The system will always be defended by those countless people who have enough intellect to defend but not quite enough to innovate." ~ Edward de Bono
"Effectiveness without values is a tool without a purpose." ~ Edward de Bono
"The image that concerns most people is the reflection they see in other people's minds." ~ Edward de Bono
"Many highly intelligent people are poor thinkers. Many people of average intelligence are skilled thinkers. The power of a car is separate from the way the car is driven." ~ Edward de Bono
"(...) being right all the time acquires a huge importance in education, and there is this terror of being wrong. The ego is so tied to being right that later on in life you are reluctant to accept that you are ever wrong, because you are defending not the idea but your self-esteem. (...) this terror of being wrong means that people have enormous difficulties in changing ideas." ~ Edward de Bono
"The analysis of data will not by itself produce new ideas." ~ Edward de Bono
"The winner is the chef who takes the same ingredients as everyone else and produces the best results." ~ Edward de Bono
"We may need to solve problems not by removing the cause but by designing the way forward even if the cause remains in place." ~ Edward de Bono
"Argument is meant to reveal the truth, not to create it." ~ Edward de Bono
"If you do not design the future, someone or something else will design it for you." ~ Edward de Bono
"Creativity makes life more fun and more interesting." ~ Edward de Bono
"We may have a perfectly adequate way of doing something, but that does not mean there cannot be a better way. So we set out to find an alternative way. This is the basis of any improvement that is not fault correction or problem solving." ~ Edward de Bono
"Traditional thinking is all about "what is" Future thinking will also need to be about what can be." ~ Edward de Bono
"Logic will never change emotion or perception." ~ Edward de Bono
"The power of a car is separate from the way the car is driven." ~ Edward de Bono
"I'm tired of dreaming. I'm into doing at the moment. It's, like, let's only have goals that we can go after." ~ Edward de Bono
"Opportunity ideas do not lie around waiting to be discovered. Such ideas need to be produced." ~ Edward de Bono
"It's not enough to rage against the lie.. you've got to replace it with the truth." ~ Edward de Bono
"The effective thinker treats arrogance as the major sin of thinking." ~ Edward de Bono
"What the joke displays is a switch in perception. This is important in changing the way we think." ~ Edward de Bono
"Every valuable creative idea must always be logical in hindsight. If it were not, we would never be able to see its value." ~ Edward de Bono
"Lateral thinking... is the process of using information to bring about creativity and insight restructuring. Lateral thinking can be learned, practised and used. It is possible to acquire skill in it just as it is possible to acquire skill in mathematics." ~ Edward de Bono
"One very important aspect of motivation is the willingness to stop and to look at things that no one else has bothered to look at. This simple process of focusing on things that are normally taken for granted is a powerful source of creativity." ~ Edward de Bono
"We need creativity in order to break free from the temporary structures that have been set up by a particular sequence of experience." ~ Edward de Bono
"Don't criticise a hypothesis, come up with a better one." ~ Edward de Bono
"Mock the devil, and he will flee from thee." ~ Edward de Bono
"Dealing with complexity is an inefficient and unnecessary waste of time, attention and mental energy. There is never any justification for things being complex when they could be simple." ~ Edward de Bono
"It has always surprised me how little attention philosophers have paid to humor, since it is a more significant process of mind than reason. Reason can only sort out perceptions, but the humor process is involved in changing them." ~ Edward de Bono
"Once a new idea springs into existence, it cannot be unthought. There is a sense of immortality in a new idea." ~ Edward de Bono
"Creative thinking - in terms of idea creativity - is not a mystical talent. It is a skill that can be practised and nurtured." ~ Edward de Bono
"A memory is what is left when something happens and does not completely unhappen." ~ Edward de Bono
"Thinking is the ultimate human resource.  Yet we can never be satisfied with our most important skill.  No matter how good we become, we should always want to be better" ~ Edward de Bono
"Man owes his success to his creativity. No one doubts the need for it. It is most useful in good times and essential in bad." ~ Edward de Bono
"Complexity creates confusion, simplicity focus." ~ Edward de Bono
"The awful thing is that you can never be aware of what you are not aware of." ~ Edward de Bono
"Unfortunately, our existing traditional thinking habits insist that you must attack something and show it to be bad before you can suggest a change. It is more difficult to acknowledge that something is excellent and then to ask for change because although it is excellent, it is not enough." ~ Edward de Bono
"I used to think that one day I'd be able to resolve the different drives I have in different directions, the tensions between the different people I am. Now I realize that is who I am. I do feel I'm getting closer to the song in my head. I wasn't looking for grace. But luckily grace was looking for me." ~ Edward de Bono
"Critical thinking does seem a superior sort of thinking because it seems as though the critic is actually going beyond the scope of what is being criticized in order to criticize it. That is only rarely a true assumption because, most often, the critic will seize on some little aspect that he or she understands and tackle only that." ~ Edward de Bono





“The image that concerns most people is the reflection they see in other people's minds.” ― Edward De Bono
"When the story of these times gets written, we want it to say that we did all we could, and it was more than anyone could have imagined." ~ Edward de Bono
A question is a polite way of demanding something.”― Edward De Bono, How to Have a Beautiful Mind





