Hope in reality is the worst of all evils because it prolongs the torments of man
In heaven all the intresting people are missing
The maturity of man - that means to have reacquired the seriousness that one had as a child at play
All truely great thoughts are conceived while walking
Do u want to have an easy life? Then always stay with the herd and lose yourself in the herd
U r never destroyed by anyone except yourself
Friedrich Nietzsche "As long as you still experience the stars as something above you, you lack the eye of knowledge."
at the age of thirty, when it comes to high culture, one is a beginner, a child.
Friedrich Nietzsche,


& if ur friend does evil to u, say to him "I forgive u what u did to me, but how can I forgive u for what u did to yourself?"

The surest way to corrupt a youth is to instruct him to hold in higher esteem those who think alike than those who think differently.

The most spiritual man, as the strongest, find their happiness where others would find their destruction: in the labyrinth, in hardness agest themselves and others, in experiments. Their joy is self-conquest... difficult tasks are a privilege to them, to play with burdens that crush others, a recreation
Be careful when you cast out your demons that you don't throw away the best of yourself.
The most common lies  man tells are to himself
Fear is the mother of morality
All truths that are kept silent become poisonous
Look at this man there eyes show that they know nothing better on or then lying with women they have modes and the bottom of their soul.
In every real man a child is hidden that wants to play
Not to be absolutely certain is one of the essential things in rationality
Love is the state in which man sees things most decidedly as they are not
The demand to be loved is the greatest of all arrogant presumptions
the surest way to corrupt a youth is to instruct him to hold in higher esteem those who think alike than those who think differently - Friedrich nietzsche
He who fights with monsters should look to it that he himself does not become a monster. And if you gaze for long into the abyss, the abyss gazes also into you
One ought to hold on to one's heart; for if one lets it go, one soon loses control of the head too.
A thought, even a possibility, can shatter & transform us
Convictions are more dangerous enemies of truths than lies
Is it better to out-monster the monster or to be quietly devoured?
It is not lack of love, but a lack of friendship that makes unhappy marriages
The true man wants 2 things: Danger & play. For that reason he wants woman, as the most dangerous plaything
They muddy the water, to make it seem deep
No price is too high to pay for the privilege of owning yourself
The most common lie is that which one lies to himself, lying to others is relatively an exception
& those who were seen dancing were thought to be insane by those who couldn't hear the music
When marrying, ask yourself this question: Do u believe that u will able to converse weel with this person into your old age? Everything else in marriage is transitory
People who live in an age of corruption are witty & slanderous, they know that there are other kinds of murder than by dagger or assault, they also know that whatever is well said is believed
what is great in man is that he is a bridge & not a goal
You must be ready to burn yourself in your own flame. How could you rise anew if you have not first become ashes?
It is hard enough to remember my opinions without also remembering my reasons for them
Invisible threads are the strongest ties
No one can construct for you the bridge upon which precisely you must cross the stream of life, no one but you yourself alone
There's no defense agianst stupidity
He who cannot obey himself will be commanded, That is the nature of livng creatures
In every real man a child is hidden that wants to play
Love is blind, friendship closes its eyes
Anyone who has declared someone else to be an idiot, a bad apple, is annoyed when it turns out in the end that he isn't
In loneliness the lonely one eats himself, in a crowd the many eat him. Now choose
I was in darkness but I took 3 steps & found myself in paradise. The first step was a good thought, the second a good word & the third a good deed
I'm not upset that you lied to me, I'm upset that from now on I can't believe you
The demand to be loved is the greatest of all arrogant presumptions
A politician divides mankinds into two classes: tools & enemies
There are no facts, only interpretations
We have art so that we shall not die of reality
There are 2 different types of people in the world, those whowant to know & those who want to believe
The world is beautiful but has a disease called man
He who climbs upon the highest mountains laughs at all tragedies, real or imaginary
The human mind is a labyrinth, and the heart is a bottomless pit.
i hate who steals my solitude without, in exchange, offering me true company
Whoever fights Monsters should see to eat that in the process, it does not become a monster.
The surst way to corrupt a youth is to instruct him to hold in higher esteem those who think alike than those who think differently




