"Search for what is good and strong and beautiful in your society and elaborate from there. Push outward. Always create from what you already have. Then you will know what to do." ~ Michel Foucault
"Freedom of conscience entails more dangers than authority and despotism." ~ Michel Foucault
"To change something in the minds of people - that's the role of an intellectual." ~ Michel Foucault
"Knowledge is not made for understanding; it is made for cutting." ~ Michel Foucault
"I don't write a book so that it will be the final word; I write a book so that other books are possible, not necessarily written by me." ~ Michel Foucault
"There are more ideas on earth than intellectuals imagine. And these ideas are more active, stronger, more resistant, more passionate than "politicians" think. We have to be there at the birth of ideas, the bursting outward of their force: not in books expressing them, but in events manifesting this force, in struggles carried on around ideas, for or against them. Ideas do not rule the world. But it is because the world has ideas (and because it constantly produces them) that it is not passively ruled by those who are its leaders or those who would like to teach it, once and for all, what it must think." ~ Michel Foucault

"I wasn't always smart, I was actually very stupid in school [T]here was a boy who was very attractive who was even stupider than I was. And in order to ingratiate myself with this boy who was very beautiful, I began to do his homework for him – and that's how I became smart, I had to do all this work to just keep ahead of him a little bit, in order to help him. In a sense, all the rest of my life I've been trying to do intellectual things that would attract beautiful boys." ~ Michel Foucault
"As the archaeology of our thought easily shows, man is an invention of recent date. And one perhaps nearing its end." ~ Michel Foucault
"It might be said that all knowledge is linked to the essential forms of cruelty." ~ Michel Foucault
"There are moments in life where the question of knowing whether one might think otherwise than one thinks and perceive otherwise than one sees is indispensable if one is to continue to observe or reflect... What is philosophy today... if it does not consist in, instead of legitimizing what we already know, undertaking to know how and how far it might be possible to think otherwise?" ~ Michel Foucault







