I have always observed that to succeed in the world one should appear like a fool but be wise.
The sublimity of administration consists in knowing the proper degree of power that should be exerted on different occasions.
Liberty itself has appeared intolerable to those nations who have not been accustomed to enjoy it.
[The Ottoman Empire] whose sick body was not supported by a mild and regular diet, but by a powerful treatment, which continually exhausted it.
In moderate states, there is a compensation for heavy taxes; it is liberty. In despotic states, there is an equivalent for liberty; it is the modest taxes.
Slavery, properly so called, is the establishment of a right which gives to one man such a power over another as renders him absolute master of his life and fortune.
Money is a sign which represents the value of all merchandise.
Thou knowest that ever since the invention of gunpowder…I continually tremble lest men should, in the end, uncover some secret which would provide a short way of abolishing mankind, of annihilating peoples and nations in their entirety.
The history of commerce is that of the communication of the people.
The principle of democracy is corrupted not only when the spirit of equality is lost but also when the spirit of extreme equality is taken up and each one wants to be the equal of those chosen to command.
Liberty is the right of doing whatever the laws permit.
There are countries where a man is worth nothing; there are others where he is worth less than nothing.
There is only one thing that can form a bond between men, and that is gratitude... we cannot give someone else greater power over us than we have ourselves.
Study has been my sovereign remedy against the worries of life. I have never had a care that an hour's reading could not dispel.
It is a misfortune for a woman never to be loved, but it is a humiliation to be loved no more.
The state of slavery is in its own nature bad. It is neither useful to the master nor to the slave; not to the slave, because he can do nothing through a motive of virtue; nor to the master, because by having an unlimited authority over his slaves he insensibly accustoms himself to the want of all moral virtues, and thence becomes fierce, hasty, severe, choleric, voluptuous, and cruel. … where it is of the utmost importance that human nature should not be debased or dispirited, there ought to be no slavery.
Politics are a smooth file, which cuts gradually, and attains its end by slow progression.
To enjoy reading is to transform wearisome hours into delightful ones.
Christians are beginning to lose the spirit of intolerance which animated them: experience has shown the error of the expulsion of the Jews from Spain, and of the persecution of those Christians in France whose belief differed a little from that of the king. They have realized that zeal for the advancement of religion is different from a due attachment to it; and that in order to love it and fulfill its behests, it is not necessary to hate and persecute those who are opposed to it.
The alms given to a naked man in the street do not fulfil the obligations of the state, which owes to every citizen a certain subsistence, a proper nourishment, convenient clothing, and a kind of life not incompatible with health.
Horace and Aristotle told us of the virtues of their fathers, and the vices of their own time, and authors down through the centuries have told us the same. If they were right, men would now be bears.
The public revenues are a portion that each subject gives of his property, in order to secure or enjoy the remainder.
I have read descriptions of Paradise that would make any sensible person stop wanting to go there.
Not to be loved is a misfortune, but it is an insult to be loved no longer.
The success of most things depends upon knowing how long it will take to succeed.
I can assure you that no kingdom has ever had as many civil wars as the kingdom of Christ.
It has eternally been observed that any man who has power is led to abuse it.
People here argue about religion interminably, but it appears that they are competing at the same time to see who can be the least devout.
This state [England] will perish when legislative power is more corrupt than executive power.
Honor sets all the parts of the body politic in motion, and by its very action connects them; thus each individual advances the public good, while he only thinks of promoting his own interest.
If we only wanted to be happy, it would be easy; but we want to be happier than other people, and that is almost always difficult, since we think them happier than they are.
It is necessary from the very nature of things that power should be a check to power.
The law of nations is naturally founded on this principle, that different nations ought in time of peace to do one another all the good they can, and in time of war as little injury as possible, without prejudicing their real interests.
Nature is just to all mankind, and repays them for their industry. She renders them industrious by annexing rewards in proportion to their labor.
Study has been for me the sovereign remedy against all the disappointments of life. I have never known any trouble that an hour's reading would not dissipate.
At our coming into the world, we contract an immense debt to our country, which we can never discharge.
Mankind by their industry, and by the influence of good laws, have rendered the earth more proper for their abode.
The power of divorce can be given only to those who feel the inconveniences of marriage, and who are sensible of the moment when it is for their interest to make them cease.
It is clear that in a monarchy, where he who commands the exceution of the laws generally thinks himself above them, there is lessneed of virtue than in a popular government, where the person entrusted with the execution of the laws is sensible of his being subject to their direction.
As soon as man enters into a state of society he loses the sense of his weakness; equality ceases, and then commences the state of war.
Thus the creation, which seems an arbitrary act, supposes laws as invariable as those of the fatality of the Atheists. It would be absurd to say that the Creator might govern the world without those rules, since without them it could not subsist.
Countries are not cultivated in proportion to their fertility, but to their liberty.
A love of the republic in a democracy is a love of the democracy, as the latter is that of equality. A love of the democracy is likewise that of frugality. Since every individual ought here to enjoy the same happiness, and the same advantages, they should consequently taste the same pleasures and form the same hopes, which cannot be expected but from a general frugality.
The crime against nature will never make any great progress in society unless people are prompted to it by some particular custom.
Knowledge humanizes mankind, and reason inclines to mildness; but prejudices eradicate every tender disposition.
Man, as a physical being, is like other bodies governed by invariable laws.






























